what is up everyone happy Friday and
welcome to the W show it's going to be a
very exciting show for you guys today
we've got of course the big controversy
this week why is it that YouTubers keep
killing perfectly innocent companies how
could they what did those companies ever
do to these YouTubers they're so cruel
and awful we've also got an extremely
special guest this week the one and only
Jim Keller I'll give you guys a bit of a
longer introduction right after the
intro now Luke gets I mean I'm sure
there's something else that's going to
excite the people uh uh he's trying I
don't know man the spiffing britz PC
needed repairs oh you went right what
did you do what did what did my heart do
to you why did you feel the need to jab
something into it and twist build a
build a question did I destroy your
[Laughter]
company I don't know about that uh and
Bost Dynamics has a crazy new robot and
of course of course in Boston Dynamics
style they had to an absolutely
psychotic video about it you're were
going to say of course of course and
it's not going to be a horse I I missed
the video so I didn't know what it was I
assume I mean they have a dog uh it's
not a horse I just assumed it's more
like humanoid I'm I'm I'm messing with
you I know what I know I'm clarifying
for the
audience they need to know things I
already
wed they can still hear us I know but
barely it's there's music
[Music]
the show is brought to you today by MSI
Squarespace and vessie I'm going to
spare him having to turn red while we
talk about his illustrious career but of
course our guest this week is the one
and only Jim Keller current CEO of tens
torrent co-founder of atomic semi who
notable work includes and Brace
yourselves because this is a bit of a
list he was the lead architect of the
AMD K8 micro architecture and
co-designed the x86 64 instruction set
he was later the lead designer on the
Zen architecture that catapulted AMD
back to relevance and now more than he
helped design the Apple A4 and A5 the
company's first in-house s so he's the
former VP of autopilot Hardware
engineering at Tesla more recently he
left Intel in 201 20 uh following a
dispute we don't need to get into the
exact details of that but joined tens
torrent as CTO the same year and became
CEO in January of
2023 in 2023 he also co-founded Atomic
semi a Foundry that's focused on
designing and Manufacturing lowcost
fabrication equipment which is something
I have to admit had flown under my radar
and I'm definitely going to want to ask
a little bit more about and without
further Ado thank you for coming on the
show there he is hey thank you so much
and
welcome I'm I'm struggling to imped
imped and match your Your
Enthusiasm pretty good I think we all do
it's okay
realistically look I usually have to
sell it a little but I am genuinely
extremely excited to have you on the
show uh they asked me when I got on the
phone with your team because we reached
out when we saw the the dev kit that you
guys have right now so this is on the T
torrent side um and I was like okay
obviously whatever Jim's working on is
probably cool as
so maybe there's something here and so I
scheduled a call to it's just
exploratory call and they go oh well you
know do you want to talk to Jim and I'm
like well we don't really take guests on
our show anymore but um yes we'll make
an exception that would be great w I
don't want to waste anyone's time which
is a big part of the reason we don't
take guests we are notorious for
starting our show anywhere from 1 to 3
hours late
and we hate doing that to important
people so without further Ado I want to
get into some of the community submitted
questions we announced that you were
going to be joining us and it would have
been a huge disappointment if you
weren't here but you are so Dylan asks
hey Jim I'm a junior Computer
Engineering student about to start my
first internship doing verification
engineering at a big chimp company first
of all did I just say chimp company any
who doesn't matter the point is
congratulations Dylan he says it's great
to see how far open source has gone uh
we even learn risk five in our
introductory Hardware course oh cool so
first of all I want to I want to start
with letting you talk about risk five a
little bit because that's obviously a
hugely important part of what tens
torrent is doing right now and I guess I
realized I didn't really talk about T
torent at all so do you want to give us
a short introduction to what exactly
Drew you to this company and to their
mission
wow okay so Tor is a AI computer design
company we're designing a high-end AI
engine and also a high-end risk fire
processor
and I
think yeah a AI has gone through a lot
of evolution and you know it started
running on CPUs and then gpus and then I
think Google went has the tensor
processor and
2015 and we're building essentially
array of tensor processors that's
programmable with open source uh
software stock that we released in
January and then there's going to be a
combination of AI Computing and and
general purpose Computing tied together
and we decided to make a high-end risk 5
processor our AI processor also uses
little RIS 5 cores you know to drive the
execution of the big tensor
processor so
and yeah so the and the r five thing is
really interesting because
you know at some level computer
architectures are generic it doesn't
really matter very much if it's x86
power PC myips Alpha arm or rist 5 but
only rist 5 is open and the Berkeley
guys that started it were pretty good
and the cool thing about open source you
know we saw with Linux is when it's open
source a whole bunch of people can work
on it it's a it's a much better
Innovation platform and and there's a
it's a one-way door when people go from
you know proprietary technology to open
source they literally never go back
Linux killed literally all the
proprietary Unix operating systems and I
think Solly RIS 5 is going to take over
the Computing World which is pretty fun
just want to say your student
friends go go ahead I was just going to
say if I'm one of those Berkeley guys
I'm putting uh Jim Keller said I'm
pretty good on my LinkedIn like
immediately
that's awesome they're pretty
good
well yeah I could tell funny stories
about like you know computer science in
universities and computer science and
high-end computer design companies they
they kind of work together and it's
really interesting because a team of a
hundred people work together for five
years can refine that crap out of
somebody something whereas students you
know they get a project and sometimes
without that much support and some of
those projects are pretty good and and
some of them it's hard for it to add up
to a lot let's say so you but like like
the branch predictors everybody uses
came out of universities and the RIS
five architecture which is going to
let's say dominate Computing in 10 years
years is came out of universities and
now there's 20 odd companies building r
five computers and way more using it so
whether you did it on purpose uh or
whether you did it by accident you
actually transitioned me perfectly into
the second half of Dylan's question
and this is he asked forting into a
higher level
architectes position if you want to work
on one of those teams are you going to
recommend stay in school go for the PHD
or do you want years in Industry what
are you looking
for I well so phds are really good for
some people if you really have a
research topic and you really want to go
think really hard but if you want like I
didn't study computer design in college
I'm an electrical engineer you know my
my major is first electromagnetic fields
and then when I my my advisor ran the
the semiconductor physics lab so I
learned about a lot about that and then
I took one logic design course and then
got a job doing that and then I got a
job at digital where I work for a great
architect Bob
Stewart and then computer Architects
good ones know about a lot of different
things so I learned how to program you
know do lot to design I know about
semiconductor physics I I know a weird
amount about packaging and you know
signal integrity and all kind of stuff
and so if you want to be a computer
architect you should probably work on a
lot of different things and most
computer Architects that are really good
at it didn't do it in college you know
as a
PhD interestingly enough I it's it's
almost like a two Arrow of a way to go
about it PhD guys tend to be experts in
something ARS tend to be tend to be
generalists I'd say yeah so you already
kind of alluded to this one as well but
William asks I mean you've obviously got
experience on the arm side you've got
experience on the x86 side you've got
experience on the risk 5 side um William
asks how far do you think x86 64 can go
I mean you're telling me now you're
saying look risk 5 is going to be the
future you gave that number 10 years I'm
not going to hold you to it I mean I
can't promise nobody else will but I'm
not going to hold you to it um is that
because x86 is out of gas or is it
because risk 5 has just got some kind of
fuel that we're only just discovering
the potential for in the engine which
which one is
it
neither so computers
generically you know they fetch
instructions decode them and issue them
right and the thing that makes the front
end of a computer fast is how many
instructions can you decode and how well
can you predict the instruction stream
right so x86 has a deficit in this sense
that you know random lengths
instructions are harder to predict but
we sort of figured that out it's just
harder to do but it's not like a big
limitation and then the execution engine
goes fast because you have lots of
execution units and out ofo issue which
is generic to computers and then you
have a good memory system with a really
good predictor for where the data is
coming from which has nothing to do with
the
architecture so I'd say x86 has a
limitation so it's 16 registers variable
length instruction set and it sort of
has a pile of old crud that nobody
actually needs but you have to build so
so it has a tax right but comp Compu
performance is mostly today based on
prediction and the number of predictors
in a modern computer is crazy we predict
obvious like where the instruction
streams coming from where the next
branch is the direction of the branch
call return stack we predict the width
and grouping of instructions we
sometimes predict the results of
instructions so tell me this where the
data is coming from so it's all a
prediction uh one of the uh a follow-up
question from William is you know know
could we see cores using multiple
architectures could you see someone like
an Intel or an AMD an x86 license holder
taking uh uh some kind of risk 5
architecture AI processor co-processor
and using that for
prediction like an AI accelerant on a
traditional does it just not make any
sense I mean tell me if it's a dumb
question I'd love to
know yeah probably doesn't make very
much sense so computers are very
optimized around you know a particular
instruction set today there's pretty
good binary translators and they keep
getting better and binary translation
from like an arm instruction set the r
five is relatively easy and back and
forth so you'll probably pick your
general purpose Computing architecture
and then either recompile all the code
or translate the code you need like
apple switched from x86 architecture to
arm architecture they hardly missed the
beat nobody even noticed or cared that's
ecosystem andof build but they could
switch to r five and nobody would notice
her care either this is hilarious uh he
keeps beating me to what my next thing
is going to
be it's all prediction right so I just
don't even why do I even why do I bother
talking we live in a simulation and a
good simulator predicts everything and
so so the next thing I was going to this
the next thing from Williams question
that I was going to focus on so so he
asked okay how far will x86 go do you
think armor risk 5 will replace it in
the future maybe we'll see using
multiple architectures so that's all
William's question so far I'm not taking
any credit for that or blame but what I
will take credit or blame for as this
next one I was really focused on the
word replace in his question and you
brought up needing to recompile code and
software is something that I feel like
is a a bit of an elephant in the room
you know when you talk about how well
you know fundamentally all processors
are the same essentially it's like how
many instructions can you process but
while Rosetta 2 was an absolute Marvel
um to the point where just a few years
ago I wouldn't have even shortlisted
Williams question let alone asked it to
you uh but now that I've seen what Apple
was able to do with that x86 to arm
transition um and what Qualcomm is
claiming that they're doing on their
upcoming Snapdragon chips with Windows
on arm um I feel like anything's
possible and that word that replace word
can I expect to go back with with to
Legacy programs right um to to stuff
that that is that that tax on x86 that
tax on Windows and whether it's through
uh whether it's through AI or whether
it's through on the-fly recompiling can
I expect to replace the gaming PC that I
have today with something risk 5 that
will run and I'm not going to ask for
100% but if I ask for 90% of the
software I used to run do you foresee
that yeah of course
of course more and more more and more
software is written in more and higher
level languages like recompiling C
programs in Java and py pyth Python and
you name it it's getting easier and
easier like the architecture mostly
doesn't matter now what matters is on a
given architecture like we found this we
started building like a server stack for
RIS 5 and when they went from Intel to
AMD to arm to risk five each time you
port software it gets easier to do and
the hardest Port by the way was Intel to
AMD even though they're both x86 right
really and that's because there's a
whole bunch of proprietary software in
the server stack that was actually Intel
proprietary so you weren't which by the
way they weren't giving out the port so
they had to rewrite a bunch of stuff but
all the new software is C C++ it's clean
so porting the arm was
easier right porting the 5 is pretty
easy um the thing you find is like the
tool chain maturity like somebody built
a binary with some set of switches and
then you link that and somebody
mislabeled one of the header files and
then you have to be an expert to figure
out why this thing didn't work but the
actual porting of the software is not
not the hard
part 5 ecosystem uses GCC and lovm and
they're really mature compilers like
they literally use the same compilers on
the back end for all the architectures
you mentioned there the server stack for
risk 5 um that's a huge deal and I know
there was there was the struggles with
the Intel the AMD transition and that
hampered AMD a bunch of stuff it it's
going to be a big problem solving the
the server stack thing how's that going
I know you guys are working on I know
some other companies are working on it
yeah it's going pretty good so and again
this is one of those so so Amazon did a
really fun thing so in AWS they put
graviton in there yeah and first they
they ported some of their own
applications so and Amazon's pretty good
at putting a gun into somebody's head
and say you will go you know Port the
software and get it running and then
they said yes sir and they did you know
and but then they put it up on the web
and said hey if you want to you know
Port your stuff to arm it's 30% cheaper
whatever the number was and a lot of
people said sure that's easy it's
JavaScript anyway who cares right and so
people started porting it and the more
people ported the better it got and it's
easy to tell if the application and they
made it pretty generic so I think what
you'll see is like heterogeneous data
system so you'll so you have a cloud and
there'll be some Intel servers for the
dinosaur code and then there'll be arm
and wrist five or stuff that's already
been ported and there'll be a price
difference and then people will go you
know where they need
to keep converting like nobody cares
about IBM 360 code or vax code or sun
code or you know hpu code like it's it's
all gone and and and you won't care
about the the games he you ran 10 years
ago because there'll be better games
they'll just emulate them or they'll AI
emulate them like that'll be the really
funny thing you'll say hey I want to go
play Super Mario Brothers and you'll
talk to a computer and and describe
Super Mario Brothers and and play a
little video of of of you know YouTube
video from the 80s you know that played
Super Mario Brothers and it'll emulate
the whole thing and and you'll think
it's fine that's kind of terrifying uh I
can tell you there's a there's a lot of
Gamers watching this right now that are
going to be really unhappy about that
but we're going to move on we're going
to move on guys some of them could be
really happy cuz now they have these
games that going to get pong from this
you know the 80s and and they'll be
able to like train an AI engine to play
perfectly Nintendo's litigating already
Space Invaders all the stuff that we
used to play at bars I I can hear
Nintendo's lawyers from here yeah um
Carol asks as a junior IC design
engineer I often wonder how to stay on
the bleeding edge in the semiconductor
industry
recently I discovered Intel power via
entirely accidentally through a YouTube
video and blamed myself for missing it
for almost a year what is your advice
for keeping up with the industry besides
just I don't know creating new
technology
yourself make sure you work someplace
where they're doing new stuff oh okay so
so what happens this is a recruitment
inter lot of places
yeah sure we are hard no so you build a
technology like a CPU and you know at
first it's new and you know it's got a
lot of problems and then you start
refining they get pretty good at it and
then the the management teams typically
go well it's really risky and expensive
to do a new one what if it's worse right
and you start refining what happens is
people get in smaller and smaller boxes
whereas when you do new new new projects
with like a new team everybody does a
little bit of everything and you have to
go solve new challenges and when you do
a new project you never use an old CAD
tool or you know you you sort of aim
forward whereas you know I was at Tesla
and we talked to vendors of a bunch of
our chips and half of them couldn't do a
small tweak to the chips I had in
production they've been shipping them
for a couple years was it the knowledge
that was Miss they didn't have the cat
tools no they had the database to run it
on the Fab but but they couldn't update
it right and it was so so if you're a
young engineer make sure you're working
some place where they're doing new stuff
and there lots of new stuff going on you
did it again um you led me right into my
next question uh this one's for me so
again I get full credit or blame if it's
a stupid question
um I've always wondered this uh my lay
person brain you know looks at a new
innovation uh you know a new a new
generation of of Chip whether it's from
an Intel an Nvidia um a tense torrent
whoever right and I look at it and I go
okay but really tell me this this this
idea you guys
implemented where did it come from you
know how much of that generational
Improvement is a we didn't think of it
before versus B we needed to try it
first but we went small before
committing Big versus we totally thought
of it uh we totally knew it was a good
idea but the process node technology for
example didn't allow it we had other
priorities like how much of it is a b or
c I want I want to know right like 3D
vcash I think it's all of them yeah it's
it's really weird so I mean in the
platonic reality everything already
exists right so we we don't actually
live in that world there's literally an
infinite number of possibilities most of
of them are bad right and so thanks
doctor strange it's true like so so
that's a problem um so there's one thing
which is you work out a bunch of you
know architect you're making a new CPU
you have a bunch of ideas you say these
are really solid but I want to make it a
wider issue but that causes you to have
to go rebuild the entire cach and fetch
system and then the the more
instructions you fetch the better your
predictors have to be and some
predictors scale just by making them
bigger but sometimes you need a better
algorithm like the simple Branch
predictors we started with were fine for
years but if you're trying to keep 500
instructions in a reorder buffer and
never flush the pipe it has to be so
accurate it's unbelievable now some of
those things were
invented now here's a funny story which
is Intel ran a competition for the best
branch predictor they published the
results and the one of them was in
Wikipedia and when we first started
doing Zen we needed a really good Branch
predictor so I looked it up in Wikipedia
IA flew over to beat the guy and paid
him for a
patent you can't make the up now
the
mathematical so it turns out there's
math under these kinds of predictors
which is a little related to how neural
networks in AI worked right and so the
initial predictors was sort of do what
you did last time and then the the
better version was keep more track of
the history of what you did before and
use that but at some point point it
started to look more like a computation
of you know there's this space of path
in the program and can you map compress
that space of paths to something useful
and then predict which path you should
follow on which is related to a field of
mathematics
and and then it was it really possible
to you had enough transistors so more
slog gives you more transistors every
couple years and so there's this little
and then there's a tradeoff like in the
short run maybe I'll make this bigger
because it's easy but I can't just make
keep making it bigger so I need to find
a better idea or do something
sophisticated and then take advantage of
all the transistors like it's it's a
combination of things and then every
time you build a computer you learn a
lot about doing it you continue to
Performance model software continues to
evolve and there's some things that used
to be a bad idea that are not a good
idea and vice versa so it's you know
it's it's complicated
let's shift our Focus lot of publish
stuff you know like like people don't
realize how much information's out there
there's 100,000 people building faster
computers let's shift our Focus people
know a lot about what's going on yeah go
to AI um because obviously that's that's
your next big challenge that you're
you're taking on right now um and it's
I've got actually a number of different
you know what I'll go with I'll go with
one of the ones from our audience um
I've gotten kind of an Adder to this one
Charles asks AI is set to disrupt the
global economy in ways that we've never
experienced before not in our lifetimes
maybe never ever as a species uh what do
you see as your role in guiding an
economic future that includes Ai and
then my follow on here is as a key
contributor potentially to this upcoming
change do you feel a personal
responsibility for shepherding AI in a
responsible direction or do you kind of
go well look that's the software guy's
problem I just build I just build the
the platform that it rides on like what
what's going on here in your
mind well if you heard a story and you
know the human race has been radically
disrupted you know a dozen times in the
last couple hundred years you know
automation is kind of wild uh my father
used to tell me it was the fractional
horsepower motor that automated all the
fact factories you know electricity
generation was huge obvious you know
everybody talks about the printing press
books being able to read college
educations highway system it's it's it's
a lot right and then curtz says AC you
know progress accelerates and so it's
one thing for something to happen like
once a generation but we've gone through
Mainframe any computer workstation PC
Mobile internet internet yeah you know
cloud
computing you know always on always
connected and now a lot of that's in my
lifetime man like what is going so this
is this is a lot of accelerations in one
place right now I'm a technologist I
know how to build
computers
and
we like my part of it is I I really
don't think the world be a good place if
only the the super rich corporations had
big computers right I think AI
technology should be available to as
many people as possible that the
software should be as open as possible I
really I really like the fact that some
people are publishing really good AI
models we decided to publish our
compiler stack as you know like the core
of the TPU compiler and video stuff is
proprietary and not accessible to to
everybody um in terms of managing
Society
I I don't believe individuals are the
right answer to that I think this is a
collective effort which needs a lot of
people to think about
it also but on the flip side in most of
the transitions we've ever had the Doom
sers have been
wrong right we keep
solving the you know how does society
and people and individuals work together
to solve our technology problems and the
balance of power between all the
factions
you know so I you know I have some
concern about it I have a belief in
human progress I think I I I like the
open source world I like open
technology I like products that people
can build and afford I'm not really into
the one trillion doll computers that
only two people can afford you know so
my T T's mission is partly like how do
we make computers cheaper and how do we
make them more open and when we're
licens our technology to a bunch of
people to build their own products and
you know I think that's that's part of
the democratization I'd say of of AI and
software in general which which I'm a
fan of so so tell me this I mean AI is
clearly it's in that it's in that stage
right now it's like it's like it's a
toddler right like it'll do something
one day that impresses the hell out of
you and then it'll be you know running
to greet you when you come home and
it'll trip and nail its face on the
floor and it's got a big nose bleed you
know the the 5 minutes later right like
it's it it's clearly stumbling around
looking for its footing but you see the
potential right you see what this
thing's going to grow up into how
harmful do you feel like high visibility
AI fails are um The Humane pin for
example is something that we're going to
be talking about later on in the show as
generated a ton of mainstream buzz and I
mean that's that's obviously there's
some recency bias there that makes me
bring up that versus uh you know talking
about some of the um okay like the $30
million Heist that was facilitated by uh
machine learning powered uh deep fakes
um there's clearly a lot of a lot of fud
around Ai and do you think that sort of
Damages our progress in the the long
term or is it all just a blip yeah it's
all a blip like AI has already been
through several hype Cycles it's going
to go through more hype Cycles you know
the the history is usually the big first
movers don't become
incumbit like nobody heard of Google and
Facebook and
Amazon before they became big you know
it was IBM digital equipment Sun
Microsystems they're all gone so like
there's going to be multiple blips
there's going to be you know both funny
and you know somewhat
scary you know issues but it's you know
the human race is pretty big and
resilient and there's lots and lots of
smart people and um yeah well it's going
to elaborate out all over the place you
know it's happening as we
speak you know am I worried about it I
am definitely curious it's going to be a
it's going to be a wild ride
okay you you did it again the last 25
years have been wild you actually did it
again are you sure we're not in a
simulation because the next thing I was
going to ask is no no here's here's the
really funny part okay here we go like
it if you were going to build a
simulation you would build in a bunch of
things to like let's say limit the
computation you need like the speed of
light's cool because you can't really
see what's going on over there cuz
there's a limit that like things don't
interact all at once and the uncertainty
principle is really cool because when
you look at something really closely it
gets a little bit
undefined we live in a here's my
favorite part of the universe we live in
a universe that's governed by three
principles the uncertainty principle the
incompleteness theory and the UN
unprovability
problem so it's uncertain incomplete and
unprovable if you were building a
simulation those would be some pretty
good rules to put into it because that
would massively limit the amount of
computation you have to
do um okay so what I was going to bug
you with then is I mean Nvidia very
publicly uh very loudly dropped 10% of
their valuation today and every time
right every time something like this
happens um you get people on both sides
going no no it's real it's real to the
Moon you get people on the other side
going it was a bubble they're talking
whether it's uh bubble or whether it's
web 3.0 or they're pointing at some
other hype bubble
um what is companies are bubbles yeah
can can can both of those things be true
was my question yeah yeah yeah that's
like that's capitalism somebody said oh
that company's just kicking the can down
the road and somebody else said duh
that's how companies work right get
invest dollars there's no stability okay
there's no stability
okay then well there's a dynamic
stability in the sense that there will
be always be 100 top companies but those
companies change
continuously like the the myth is oh the
you know the super rich will always be
rich that's mostly not true the super
big companies will always be big that's
not true like there's virtually no
companies that are 100 years old that
are so
viable uh speak everybody's got their
day in the Sun so okay speaking of which
you're at the helm of a company now my
understanding is this is your first time
in the CEO position is that
correct it is okay so I was going to ask
you with that knowledge right like uh
one of one of the really famous quotes
from someone I can't remember who
because I'm terrible at names but um a
really famous quote that I that I read
at one point was that good
leaders lead a company great leaders put
the company on a path such that when
they leave it becomes better than it was
with their leadership um and you know
you just said it right like there's very
few companies that areful thinking yeah
sure I Okay but well hold on hold on let
me let me finish the question before you
predict my whole thing and answer
it so knowing that a 100 years is an
awful long time for a single company to
stay viable you know what does your
leadership look like is it an in the
trenches leadership is it a set the
vision and let people do it leadership
how are you find how are you finding
it
well yeah I I'd say I like to do both I
I like Visionary leaders um I worked in
you know Steve Jobs Apple and I worked
for Elon and I learned a lot from those
guys they they both they are both
Visionary leaders but they're also
really Hands-On people like Steve Jobs
worked on products every day now I did
he didn't work directly without many
people but I work for a guy talked to
him literally a couple times today like
hbert who was a brilliant guy and it was
very Hands-On and very knowledgeable
about everything we were doing and you
know and elon's the same way he's like
he's a he's a Wonder in terms of how
many different Technologies and stuff he
can say useful things and have insights
about and he likes everybody to be
handson so yeah I'm I'm into the hands
on things so now I I'm a Believer what
called cre Collective creativity and I
like people to own stuff and feel
empowered to go do it I played the
around the find out video for my whole
company on it all hands
maybe fun and that's you know so I like
people to get stuff done and you know
but also to own it and it's okay to
screw it up and fail and as long as you
learn something and try it so it's
complicated to be a leader if you just
tell people what to do they don't do a
very good job if you just pay attention
to Vision that's not enough um you have
to be ready to willing to work with
people and find people like like good
people that work for me I have some
really good uh Technical and
organizational managers and they're
pretty hands on people they know what
they're doing but they also know how to
give people space to go do something
useful and it's com It's a combination
of things you got to do both okay well
tell me what success looks
like pretend for yeah every year we get
to build better computers and we we
build products our customers like and uh
we keep going but here's the funny one
so when I was a digital we used to joke
that would build computers till the
money ran out and then the money ran out
and we went bankrupt so I went to am and
I told somebody that joke and they said
Jesus the money runs out here all the
time we've been bankrupt like three
times Jerry Sanders just you know he
goes borrow some money or cuts a big
deal so like like run running out of
money was not an AMD problem and when I
went back to AMD we were like months
from
bankruptcy and uh Jensen's famous for
telling everybody they'll be bankrupt in
a month you know for most of the
company's life and so no like you you
build stuff Steve Jobs said you're only
as good as your next product right I
believe that like people build a great
product and you think now we made it not
technology no you go make a better
product or the the market changes or the
customers want something different or or
you learn something new or somebody else
learned something new that you didn't
know about so yeah success for me
is I want a team that's you know engaged
and interesting and we're building
useful stuff and we build stuff that
somebody wants and then my expectation
is we'll have to go build something
else like keep going of course we were
going to have some questions about your
time at AMD uh Hector asks uh you
returned during a challenging time which
you've alluded to just now um what was
the morale like were was it was it fight
was it
flight uh
resignation oo apathy yeah so when I
joined there so so so so I worked at AMD
I I liked the like when I was in AMD in
98 99 something like that um I like the
culture of it's a teamwork culture um
Apple was much more of a
hard Edge do the best Excellence you
know reward the top kind of culture um
so I was I was intrigued I knew I
thought they were going bankrupt when I
joined um it was closer than I thought
they had fired a third of the people I
think we ultimately laid off over half
the company um but the people that were
there liked each
other um you know the expression the
rats leave the sinking ship there
weren't many rats at AMD when I got
there they had all left and the people
that were there were off of and
technically very good and they were good
to work with so and I thought it would
be fun to figure out how to turn the
company around yeah it didn't work you
know like I just get another job it's
like like I wasn't really worried about
job so so I went in there sort of
knowing you know what's going on there
were some things that to be honest were
worse than I thought yeah nobody talks
about the rat that um voluntarily swims
back to the sinking ship so I put us
you're try to say that well I call SP of
Spain well I was friends with Mark paper
master and I said I wanted to lead the
CPU team and they wanted me to be the
architect and I thought I could ever
pull this off if I'm the architect and
somebody else manages us to people
because building a great product takes a
combination of architecture teamwork
organization all kinds of stuff and uh I
hadn't managed like 500 people before
but I read a book about it it's not that
hard
to be H I read 10 books about it and I
hired a consultant who was excellent
about this kind of stuff okay so it's a
little bit hard
then yeah 10 books took a couple of
weeks but uh it was really
fun and then well uh Rory Reed was CEO
at the time and I told him I had to
cancel all the projects and start over
and he's like yeah nobody cares if you
know if we have like a 50% of the
competition or
53 and uh you know go ahead and do it so
I had a lot of freedom and then a lot of
people had a lot of good ideas you it
wasn't just me like so we kind of
unlocked it you know and I'd say a lot
of people didn't believe in the product
some of them didn't believe it right
till it was finished really because they
were so used to AMD losing yeah well
hold on a second how does that happen
Okay this is something that maybe is
does not Engineers are very determined
people they can work on something they
know is never going work but they're
having fun doing their part and they
just Soldier on like it's it's okay but
hold on a second and maybe this isn't
your problem because you know you can
tell just from the blunt honesty that
you you haven't spent a day in marketing
in your life um but oh I'm great at
marketing I could I can sell you your
own
shirt that's a book about it it's not
that
hard okay but help me out here because
this is something that blows my mind is
a product will arrive and US monkeys
who basically are just like I don't know
oo o ooh o Run game you know measure
frames per second are sitting here going
hey guys you got the pricing way wrong
you're at you're at you're at 80% of the
competition and you're priced 20% higher
and you get people who presumably talk
to people who worked on the bloody thing
and they're like oh really and you just
kind of go where does this disconnect
come from how could you possibly be help
me with this how could you possibly be
an architect or or someone working on
Zen you got your nose right up against
this thing and you go I don't know maybe
this thing I have no idea how does
it happen how can we tell and they
can't I'm sorry what question did you
asking okay the question you're were
saying some of the people working on Zen
up until the very end you go yeah they
didn't they didn't believe in it how's
that even possible because they're
seeing they well they they'd worked on
the previous product that was any good
and you know they just assumed this
wouldn't be I don't know but they got I
would tell people what we're doing and
they would look at me like Jim we could
never do that we're not that good or so
I don't know so here's a funny thing so
a friend of mine told me this years ago
so every company will tell you we only
hire the best we're the smartest people
in the world and what he said is at a
100 people you can have a really like
excellent group and at a thousand people
you can be above average and at 10,000
all companies are average
like it's true just by statistics now
there's a question about whether you
lead from the top or the middle like
there's a bunch of management theories
about this and then there's there's a
lot of problems with how you do things
and then there's this uh risk reward if
you have an okay design and you want to
make it 10% better it might be really
hard but if you do a new design you aim
30% better you can do it but the risk of
that's way higher and so people make bad
risk reward track trade-offs like the
existential risk could being 50% the
performance your competition was
100% and yet they were doing lowrisk 5%
moves right so we said hey let's build
Zend to be just as fast as I think it's
we started out I said we'll beat Haswell
which was the processor competition at
the time and which by the way was
shooting behind the duck a little bit
because we assumed Intel would keep
moving but that was my next question was
how much how much did in handy save AMD
by just stagnating like that I mean
50% okay that's a lot now you need a
good design hey and and somebody said uh
he always told me I was I I did not bet
on luck enough cuz you know I I do what
I can and I assume everybody else is
doing what they can but I I didn't see
that coming so I think that was pretty
handy for
them yeah a little bit so tell me right
now but it was good design and it was
clean so one of the things people don't
realize is when we built in you know we
had a pretty clean architecture and
redid the Catal and methodologies the
flows and stuff and then you know zen1 2
3 4 they were able to makes pretty good
progress then what happens is at some
point progress starts to slow down
because you really need to do a big
either a from scratch or a big rewrite
and then you know to get on the next
curve and that's that's that's one of
those complicated things now tell me
this um right now realistically the 800
lb gorilla in the space is is not Intel
it's it's Nvidia um or unless you
disagree in which case I would love to
I'd love to hear about it okay good so
we're on the same page there and still
founder L and Jensen is a really smart
guy so it's not only a are you shooting
behind the duck are you shooting ahead
of the duck where what what are you guys
targeting cuz you're trying to disrupt
Nvidia essentially if I if I'm not
mistaken I don't care about Nvidia okay
then tell me tell me what duck you're
aiming at there's so many it's a huge AI
is a huge Market Nvidia builds very
expensive very high performance very
high power products that people like
right with very high growth margins
turns out there's a big market for
smaller AI engines open- Source software
licensable IP chips they can buy and put
in their own products like
that's not a hundred billion Doll Market
I don't need that I'd die and go to
heaven at 500 million in Revenue so so
I'm building products for other people
now some of our products I think are
really effective and you know we'll see
but it's going to take a while to you
know to do that and I have literally
more business right now than I can deal
with and you know we're working on you
know delivering hardware and software
and you know we'll see what
happens now um
and and then the other piece is I think
the AI revolutions just started from a
computer architecture point of view and
also there's going to be a interesting
revolution in how we build general
purpose Computing so one thing I want to
do this is J personally is I want a
really good Ai and CPU
design that I can then iterate on as
software and models and a whole bunch of
things change and so we designed with
conscious intent
like our AI engine is clean and simple
right our software stock you can go read
it read it yourself right it's pretty
straightforward we're getting really
good performance on it and we have a
whole bunch of stuff coming in the next
six months that rais us to borrow on it
but if we had to say hey there's this
new model go rewrite the software I
don't have 2,000 people with 20 years of
technical debt of software I have a 100
great people writing software and the
software Stacks clean and say with a CPU
RS 5 CPU is it's going to be super fast
but it's a brand new design with brand
new architecture and it's really clean
and if we want to you know radically
change it I can do it I'm not stuck
because you know somebody's CPU that's
been iterated on for 10 years where
three qus of the code was written by
people who don't even work there
anymore like like we have we own our own
stuff which is pretty fun so I'll give
you a funny example everybody told me
you know there was a big debate about
autonomous driving should it be driven
by a c program that makes the decisions
or an AI model and the Assumption was
the AI model is this murky you know
thing that inputs go in and outputs come
out and you don't know what the AI
codee's doing they had it exactly wrong
the C program was 5 billion lines of
code written by 100 people over five
years they had no idea how that
worked but the weird part is it doesn't
have a proper loss function whereas the
AI model you trained it with a known
data set and when you train it you know
exactly what its error properties are so
which one's better the AI model you
built yesterday from scratch with a
known data set with a known error
function or the C program written by a
whole bunch of people over time that
nobody knows how it works I don't know
so
one of the things I want to do is you
know build the next generation of
computing in a world that's changing
fast so I'm not worried about 800lb
gorillas because they don't they don't
move as
fast speaking of that um yeah sorry go
for it it's a fun thing uh do you see
other competitors in the risk 5 space as
almost like teammates helping legitimize
risk 5 or do you see yeah yeah oh yeah
definitely yeah so so like like yeah re
just got Ras just got funding the it's
company's run by a friend of mine they
got some really good designers I wish
them the best scii is the good company
Chris was one of the original pretty
good Berkeley guys as you pointed out
that helped build the RIS live
architecture uh Andy is a really great
company they're CEOs he's a character I
really like of a lot they're driving
they're driving real stuff I know the
Anana guys yeah like the CPU Market's
huge yeah right and to be honest you
know having five so x86 was the original
open source architecture right they
licensed it like six seven companies and
the reason it built d80 6800
652 um was
because those were single Source
proprietary architectures and x86 the
original 886 was
open now it's it's become proprietary
with two you know duopoly you know
controlling it but it was the open
architecture that's why it won it didn't
win cuz it was better all those CPUs
were were
crap um and small and arbitrary speaking
of there being
only oh okay um speaking of there being
only two uh we got our hands very
recently I'm about to tease an upcoming
video here on a centaur processor that
uh well it's obviously it never actually
made its way to um to the market but
Centaur Halls uh it's an 8 core it's
clocked at 2.5 GHz and it seems to have
risen out of the ashes of uh via
um yeah I haven't followed that for a
while well no one's followed it for a
while it's been dead for a while but
their concept was on CPU AI kind of like
what you just alluded to that was very
affordable uh they were targeting 500
bucks for this chip uh with on chip AI
uh with with on
onai um and it just couldn't get over
the line was the problem x86 was the
problem just they didn't have a good
enough team if you don't know much about
it that's totally fine it just was it
was a funny coincidence that we made a
video about it this week and then you
brought up that that kind of that
concept um okay so if you're not I don't
know it turns out you know building AI
hardware and software that works is is
harder than it looks let's say like uh
my friend Roger kadori said every AI
company in the middle of it there's a
mole ad unit like and everybody can
build one but building like AI is
complicated because it's a general
purpose computer that runs AI programs
so you need all the layers you can't
just build a uh an AI engine with a
compiler that runs a couple benchmarks
you know there's firmware there's
drivers there's security there's
interrupts there's every single piece of
it and the thing we've been working on
is elaborating out that full
stack on that subject from top to bottom
and and then the other is a lot of
people tried to make a a dent in the
market with one chip and it's relatively
small you know so to drive a car it's
going to be couple pedal flops to to run
like real time
video um we're building the computer
which we think will run realtime video
in a single box at a reasonable price
but but it's expensive it's a it's a big
AI engine it's not a
$500 you know 200 Tera flop chip it's
it's it's it's pretty serious okay so
let me jump in with what was going to be
my next question from Ricky um like you
said hey it turns out AI pretty hard
driving a car pretty hard I mean uh Mr
musk has famously promised us that full
autonomous driving is x amount of away
um I I I kind of am wondering if he had
an early point in his career where he
worked at valve at this point when it
comes to giving etas for things um and I
and Ricky wanted me to ask you okay how
far are we really away from Full
self-driving because I got to tell you I
am relatively speaking an idiot but when
we got the promise that you know full
self-driving was going to can you drive
a car I can well okay oh so you you
could at least I'm smarter than your
computer so it doesn't seem like like we
don't really need AGI to drive cars it
turns out cuz Okay pretty funny what I
was trying to say is relatively speaking
I'm an idiot but I looked at the claim
that you know every current every
current Tesla was going to be capable of
full autonomous driving and I went
there's no way there's no way even
knowing what I know it's just there's
absolutely no way that they have the
kind of capabilities even if I
extrapolate even if Tesla is is 10x what
everyone else is doing on the market
right now I just I'm sorry I don't buy
it um so how so so Ricky asks me to ask
how far are we away from True like level
four level five True full
self-driving give me give me a spitball
so well my favorite my favorite crack
about Elon is he turns the impossible in
the late and then people complain about
it like crazy
and I always thought that that's pretty
good
um got to raise money somehow
it yeah well sure you know Kick the Can
down the road buil some products like
their cars are great I I have two of
them so and I like full self-driving I
use it every day and uh it's a little
quirky um but it's getting better
no
so
there's building a big enough enough AI
engine so so humans drive cars really
well I taught both of my daughters in
you know a couple hours to drive a car
and it turns out they both have a
general intelligence right and so for
them conations the subset of that yeah
yeah it's pretty good and I I was
thinking of AB testing them like like I
was going to have one of them like read
the rules and then you know go for a
drive and then I was going to have the
other one watch like a hundred million
hours of video and then see which one
could drive faster
but my daughter Cather she told me to
bug off she's like no way I'm watching
like 100 million hours of video to learn
to drive a car Dad she learned it like 8
minutes flat like so the the general
intelligence seems to be a really good
thing now the problem in the cars today
is we're trying to put a small AI engine
there and get the maximum performance
out of it yeah so weo I'm in San
Francisco right now they drive around
with no drivers in the car it's pretty
spooky and you know that's a fairly
heavy-handed solution cuz it's got a
shitload of sens sensors everywhere yeah
mosquitoes and all that stuff whereas
Elon would say like a oneeyed guy with
2200 Vision could drive a car and you
know you don't have to be that smart now
that that causes the tradeoff cuz the
smaller the computer the better the
software has to be so I think if you
put I don't know five pedop flops in a
car with some of the new good
Transformer models you could drive a car
pretty fast but there's another weird
thing which is humans aren't data
intelligence we're computationally
intelligent like you didn't get smart by
watching hundreds of you know millions
of hours of anything don't don't tell my
audience yeah well maybe you watch
hundreds of hours in the last week but
it's only you know tens of thousands of
hours it's not not that much information
like we get some information we
essentially learn to simulate the world
so you you know I don't know if we live
in a simulation but our brain chair is a
simulation and we haven't we haven't
really cracked the AI problem of
building really smart systems that like
simulate themselves and essentially
create intelligence with simulation they
they're creating intelligence with data
prediction uh which seems pretty smart
but it doesn't seem like it's not close
to what we actually do I want to
arguments like yeah that well people get
a lot of data from from Vision but blind
people are smart too like you don't you
don't need to see anything to be smart
and that's State at all I want to loop
back around to one of my earlier
questions and this is obviously going to
be a little bit of uh crystal ball
gazing and I don't expect you to have a
good answer for it but I you know I
asked okay how much of a generational
Improvement is we just didn't think of
that versus we just didn't have the
capability right now you're really
focused on AI you're focused on risk 5
that's that much is very obvious um but
I have to imagine for someone like you
talking to the people you do talk to you
got to have some idea of what the next
thing is I mean obviously um you know
Jensen had some idea where he was going
with Cuda while everyone else was
sitting there going why don't I just
have more FPS on my stupid gaming thing
right right you know what is there a
risk five replacement that is that is
you know two two cells dividing right
now um where are we
going well let's say it different way so
so your brain you know there's there's
this theory about you had a primitive
brain then a mortar cortex and then an
emotional brain and then you know
cerebral cortex so our brain evolved to
add layers like our cerebral cortex is
essentially a high-end planning machine
and so obviously animals survive just
fine without one and then when it
started to grow you have to ask like
what was it for and it could be it
helped model the world better and create
better planning with better outcomes and
at some point the uh cerebral cortex
took over most people think they live
there in their head so you can do things
really fast with direct connections
through your motor cortex but most of
the you that you believe is you if you
believe in that kind of thing seems to
be your thought press so in your higher
level thinking so today AI computers are
treated as accelerators to general
purpose computation that's going to flip
pretty soon AI computers are are going
to treat general purpose computers like
a motor cortex so there'll be AI things
running to do stuff and occasionally
they'll say generate a deterministic
program to do
something right as opposed to
deterministic programs calling up AI
module so that flip is coming pretty
fast and interesting the way we think
about programming like you were talking
about well how are we going to run the
old games none of that going exist like
and even stuff as simple as video is
going to be all
generated like nobody's 10 years going
to watch a
movie like you're going to live in a
movie right it's going to be all real
time generated and you're going to
interact with it and you're going to ask
your favorite character what else going
on they go shut up I'm shooting
somebody like like this is going to
happen faster than you think
and like so all the mediums we think
about are toast and all the software
that's ever been written is going to be
gone like
100% I mean obviously there's going to
be a ton of resistance to this I mean
there'll be a corner there be a guy with
a rotary phone and a and an iPhone and a
a Java program or something but it it
won't be material to your everyday life
so okay I guess I'm about to ask you to
and feel free to ignore this question if
you're just like look I don't need the
uh one more you want it so yeah I'm I'm
a Believer in um we're going
to like like we're going to use AI to
rethink a lot of
Science and right so human beings like
we have this idea of you get data you
have a theory you have a prediction the
problem is you get trapped in your
theories and so then new data comes
along and you can't really interpret it
into your theories so all our science is
is you know it's elaborated from a bunch
of ideas but they're all human ideas and
they can't incompass comp Encompass all
the data and and I think science is
going to go through a fairly big
revolution I'm still going to see if I
can get a hot take out of you um when
you see for example you see the uh I
think you brought up entertainment a
couple times you brought up gaming you
brought up film uh when you see for
example the actor Union uh negotiating
to keep generative AI out of film and
music out of art um you know what's your
what's your take on
that this just happened a
lot you know there was a big split you
know supposedly in Europe I read it in
the history books that you know Austria
band like knitting Ma you know weaving
machines and and clothing bills and all
that stuff cuz they didn't want the
people to lose all their jobs and
England embraced it and you know one W
and one
lost so yeah so the writers unions will
say you can't use this for this movie
it'll create a whole new area where they
don't exist and people generate all
kinds of stuff and and so technology
change usually means you you get on you
get on board you get left
behind you know now I think there'll
still be writers there'll still be books
there'll still be movies made by people
for people there's all kinds of stuff
like that like you you can buy
machine-made clothing but people buy
knitted clothing people people like what
people
do and you know that's a really great
thing you know we we like artists like
you can get a perfect painting by
somebody printed but you still buy the
painting from the artist that you talk
to because it's some level more
interesting
but yeah keeping AI out this and that
you other thing is going to be a hard
fail I want uh the last sort of big one
I know you should probably I think we've
kept you longer than we said we would
I'm very sorry for that but I promise
we're getting we're getting close to the
end um we haven't talked about Atomic
semi at all and this time I'm coming in
without having done any pre-briefing
because I like I said it kind of slipped
under my radar um you say you're focused
that's I'm I'm at the office that's
that's an adom okay I did know it was an
adom but is that the logo is that the
logo for the company or Okay cool so all
I know is you guys are working on
lowcost fabrication equipment like when
you say fabrication equipment you mean
like like asml fabrication equipment
what what are we talking exctly but
smaller yeah like a little little tiny
one like that so you want to what what
your wafer is is is like five cm or why
tell tell me about okay even smaller
help me help me
so so the semiconductor technology is
great today and all the equipment is
great yeah and it got optimized to make
very large Wafers that move very fast
yes right you know they're 12 in around
like the thing that holds it weighs 50
kog and it moves so you look at all the
machines it's it's really hard to build
and heavy and all kinds of stuff yeah
you got to account for seismic stability
of the land make sure there's no ancient
burial grounds under it that sort of
thing yeah like yeah it's it's amazing
right so so I met this kid Sam Zulu like
he made made a Fab in his garage in high
school he YouTube videos about it and
then I met him when he was in college
and we started talking about what it
would mean to go build a set of
equipment where you could make a fairly
high-tech chip really fast but just make
one chip at a time and and then optimize
the crap out of it because you're not
solving the problem of moving 50 kg at
you know 100 miles an hour you're not
trying to keep something perfectly flat
over a huge surface like basically
change the game and make something way
way simpler and then take advantage of
like there's hundreds of billions of
dollars of material research being done
you can Atomic you can deposit Atomic
layers of almost any material single
atom at a time it's beautiful so is the
goal to be like deed to
go sorry go for it well my personal goal
is to go make a a really interesting
chip really fast and uh it it it feels
like the 3D pror said it's yeah it's
yeah yeah it's basically 3D printing you
know compared to injection molding right
where you you don't have to deal with
the enormous
scale huh yeah now the weird thing is if
you make them fast enough it could be
for more than prototyping right which
also happened with this is uh yeah well
3D printing is amazing and it just keeps
getting better and better and goes into
more stuff and then there's really fun
stuff like you 3D print molds and then
injection mold that like what you can do
today with the combination of the modern
cat tools 3D printing injection molding
and then CNC and all kinds of stuff it's
it's
fantastic and yeah so we're we're into
building our own machines that make
chips
and you know
using an unbelievable amount of Material
Science research they publish everything
you can buy any any any Atomic layer
deposition material you want for almost
nothing it's crazy yeah super
fun okay which um I I mean this is It's
almost like a chicken egg uh question
right like which uh which comes first
for you in terms of of taking tense
torrent to the next level in terms of um
of taking Atomic semi to the next level
do they drive each other like is this an
attempt to to yeah maybe someday real
men own Fabs you know as the the famous
quote right like I have a Fab computered
sign company I have ai software sure why
not right yes why not what are you doing
this I
mean what are you up to
like damn boom
roasted I make know it's like people hey
this planet might get hit by an asteroid
or blown up by a volcano man I want to
make sure that gets
stopped I'm
hustling like they a backup Planet but
you know we got we got big problems
right here so yeah we got to get moving
all right well on that note I think this
is a perfect time for us to say thank
you so much for coming on the show um
preemptively you know I'd like to get
out there and uh make it so that you
can't say know because it's in front of
10,000 people and say we'd love to have
you on again sometime I know that tense
torr has some really cool stuff coming
and we'd love to take a look at it once
that's a little more baked and once you
guys are ready to kind of engage with us
do some videos together uh we'd love to
maybe have you come on for a you know a
deeper look at you know the the Normie
version that we publish on the main
Channel maybe we can have a chat about
it after um oh thought this was the
Normie version this this has been no
this is the really dialed in audience
yeah this is yeah this is the guys
that'll sit and listen to us for 4 hours
a week uh this is the WAN show so um
guys if you could just give us uh give
us some Applause in the chat for Mr Jim
Keller um really appreciate you taking
this time on a Friday night uh get to
your family please sir and uh hope to
talk again
soon okay great hey great talking with
you guys all right thank you thank you
very much that was
great all right
oh maybe we should do interviews more
man that was a lot of fun dude and like
I knew from watching some of his other
interviews that his answers to things
were going to be extensive but I was
like I want to make sure I'm prepared so
I had all these questions we got through
I don't know a 20th of what I wanted to
talk about and we didn't get through
like almost any of those and then you
had your own it's like that's why I
preempted that's why I got out ahead of
it cuz I knew you had stuff um and his
his staff told me cuz I was like look
realistically you know we don't want to
take up a ton of his time we don't want
the w we don't want the W show to be 9
hours long um I do know could we could
we maybe schedule could we maybe ask him
for 20 minutes cuz I wanted to be super
reasonable and they were like I'll tell
you what you don't want that we'll put
we'll put 20 minutes on the thing but
we're going to tell Jim some other
amount of time that's longer because
people get talking to Jim and then
I mean is time even real anyway that was
so much fun uh obviously we do have to
move on into our next topic um yeah
I'm yeah that was that was a blast um
that could have gone on forever I think
let's talk about Marquez brownley
destroys the economy what a
pivot is AI going to destroy the economy
no it it will be a YouTuber so this is
obviously our headline topic for the
video today uh a review of Humane ai ai
pin by MKBHD has received a surprising
amount of backlash with at least one
detractor calling it and this is a quote
almost unethical irresponsible and
careless this particular critic even
made an implicit reference to a doctor's
hypocritic oath first Do no
harm several business influencers
followed his lead framing mark
as being some kind of powerful reviewer
heartlessly killing other people's nent
projects um this is despite some of
these business influencers claiming that
he bankrupted a company in 41 seconds
sorry what um okay so there's there's
lots of problems here so number one
Humane AI is not currently bankrupt um
number two they received a lot of
equally negative coverage from people
other Marquez he just happens to be a
particularly high-profile person and
number three Humane AI staff seem to be
largely unperturbed by his review and
their social media head Sam Sheffer
called it an honest solid review with
fair and valid critiques this is another
quote I think it helps that Sam is a
very experienced person who came from
the media side actually so like he's
he's been on the other side of this he
understands it it it makes sense that he
would have a well reasoned appropriate
response um Marquez himself has
commented on the controversy saying that
a negative review is very unlikely in
and of itself to kill a product or a
company without there being other
factors involved he also stated that his
reviews are not to inform or um
entertain businesses they are to inform
and entertain consumers um and that you
shouldn't really get that all confused
so I would just like to say heartily
that I agree
uh as a reviewer you don't owe a brand
that sends you a product for review
anything the deal is and I laid this out
I laid this out back when Hardware
unboxed was Under Fire from Nvidia uh or
rather not Nvidia was Under Fire for
their treatment of Hardware unboxed and
you had these people coming out and
saying well look you
know you know what I'm not going to name
any names but there were people both on
the company side some companies let's
not name any names and on the audience
side that had this understanding of a
reviewer's role like the second you're
reviewing something you are part of the
marketing strategy for this product or
that you um or that you owe somebody
anything that is not how this works you
get the product you evaluate it with the
knowledge and with the tools that you
have at your disposal and if you like it
there is a huge benefit there's an
enormous benefit because an
unbiased video or article about a
product is going to have a much larger
impact than paid advertising if that
weren't the case and I promise you this
I cross my heart and I give you my
personal Linus Tech tips trust me bro
guarantee if that were not the case
companies would only advertise they
wouldn't engage with Independent Media
at all why take the risk because the
other side of that coin right the other
side of that coin you get this huge
boost if an independent media says your
product is great and recommends to buy
it but if they don't like it it
stings you don't run that risk with paid
media we went through a similar thing we
sent our screwdriver out well we've G
through things on all sides of all kinds
of things when it comes to saying
whether a product is good or not and
having people be into it or not I just
mean on the product side we have been on
the product let's talk about it from the
manufacturer side yeah yeah do you want
to R going we sent it to I had the Luke
experience for an hour that was
genuinely hilarious I was trying not to
laugh every time I could see you
physically reacting and I'm like yeah
welcome to welcome to the world um that
was epic uh I I'd like you to go ahead
and tell your story now no I'm doing it
on purpose right now um no yeah we we
sent it to a bunch of different
reviewers um and every time that we knew
a review cuz we would often like there'd
be some form of communication of like
when the video would come out but they
often wouldn't tell us what like the
results were cuz that makes sense um so
like we we would know a video was coming
out on a certain day and there was so so
much anxiety because we have a lot of
belief in the product but you don't know
like they might test it in some weird
way that we we didn't think of or
whatever like you don't necessarily know
what's going to happen they might not
like the feel for whatever reason yeah
they might just plain not like
it maybe they just think it's ugly like
who who knows right and then the videos
would come out and then oh great
everybody seems to love it but like it's
it's it's a tense moment and there's a
degree of kind of knowing who you're
sending something to like if I had a
product that was functional but not
particularly aesthetically pleasing um
you know what I you might send it to
someone who's more into function over
form yeah I I might you know I'm not I
I've decided not to name names um but
but I would I might pick and choose my
reviewers a little bit if I had
something that I thought was um very
very very beautiful and and and crafted
um you know I might send it to a
completely different set and don't
imagine for a second that companies
aren't playing this game and that they
don't have a certain set of expectations
um again a name I'm not going to name
but a very large technology channel that
is not Marquez but really really big
told me that before engaging with them
one time there's a brand that had
someone on their team go back and watch
every single video they'd ever published
a to make sure they were brand safe and
B to get some idea of where their heads
space was at and what they felt was
important like I'll tell you this much
Humane AI did not contact me
that tells you everything you need to
know about their confidence in the
product from a out from a nuts and bolts
prati oh do you think they don't know
who we are yeah but did we reach out we
I think we did at some point I'm not
sure it would have been procurement team
okay but there is absolutely no way that
if they if it had there's no way that
there was a
conversation at Humane AI that did not
include what about
LT and there is absolutely no way that
if I was on that team I would have green
lit sending us
one come
on what was I going to say about it was
I going to talk about the
design I'd have been like wow how many
I'm sorry how many pixels are in this
display I was I'm not going to
lie when when some of the videos started
coming out on it I I I was often
refreshing the LT page looking for uh
the the resurrection of kickfarted but
unfortunately it never happened no I
mean I I'd be down to cover it I think
we I thought we ordered one or something
this point it might be a little late I
haven't followed it up well I don't know
I came up with a good title today it
doesn't matter how early or late your
video is if you've got a good you got
that Banger title that's true yeah so I
came up with a good title it was it was
like Marquez killed this product or
something like that or like I I forget
why did Marquez murder this yeah exactly
look how they massacred my boy um as
long as you've got the title it just
really doesn't matter so I'm I'm
definitely down to review it I am
intentionally not watching any coverage
of it like I did with the Vision Pro so
Apple's a company that explicitly
excludes us from any kind of early
access or Insider information on their
products um because they don't like the
way we do things that's fine that's fair
enough but
um
yeah the the cold hard truth the basic
truth is that that's how Independent
Media Works everyone has their own
methods everyone has their own processes
everyone has their own biases and the
way that you engage is up to you you're
not obligated to send a product to
anyone uh the only reason that that
whole thing with Nvidia and unbox
therapy blew up was because Nvidia said
the quiet part out loud apple is so
careful Nvidia yeah Hardware unbox did
what did I say unbox therapy oh I'm
sorry Hardware unbox I'm just yeah yeah
thank you the the whole the only reason
that whole thing went down with Hardware
unbox in Nvidia was because Nvidia said
the quiet part out loud they said look
if you don't get on board with Ray
tracing and and beat this drum we're not
going to be able to seed you products
anymore well okay Apple's too smart for
that I just want sorry I just want to
interject for something slightly off
topic for a second just before I forget
because I was supposed to do it at the
beginning of the show but then obviously
uh important things happened um if
you're watching on floatplane check out
the beta. flow plane.com site we just
pushed a a massive update which you're
going to notice probably nothing but
it's really big for us and we need bug
reports so if you use it run into any
problems there's a form in the bottom
left hand corner click that let us know
what's going on don't tell me in the
flow plane chat cuz I can't do anything
about it right now but use that form and
let us know it's uh we complete removal
of the angular wrapper it's all in react
it's a big deal anyways sorry back on
the topic Avery Studios says MKBHD saved
us from a junk product at the end they
can go cry on their pile of wanted
inventory and that's that's 100% true I
mean I I made a comment a little while
ago that I think got
taken well okay basically what I said
was look um I don't want anyone to buy
this about a product um and that was
taken as like that I had some kind of
bias or something but no and while I do
come with my own set of experiences
obviously in my own priorities it was it
was not a bias it was based on my direct
experience with the product and when I
said I don't want anyone to buy it it
was that I don't want anyone to waste
their money that's my fing job is that
you don't waste your money and the
reason that we've got you know as many
subscribers as we do the reason we have
so many people watching right now is
because a lot of you seem to have very
similar priorities to me and so what I
tend to do is with my experience and
with my priorities I tend to lay out
what the case is for you know you guys
as best I can or in some cases like with
something like the PS portal lay out
okay hold on a second let's go outside
of your bubble for a second and talk
about the use cases for people who are
maybe not you that's that's what I'm
doing when I'm doing my best and we have
a responsibility to at least try to be
consistent when it comes to the
application of our of our rules so if on
the one hand we say hey this thing ain't
baked it's the worst thing I've ever
seen forget about it and then on the
other hand we have a product and we say
this thing ain't baked but I you know uh
I I I love it and I'm excited for the
future anyway then we better have a damn
good justification for why we're
applying these different standards and
we better explain it um I think you
probably saw something like that with
our coverage of Intel Arc where we
basically said okay look we're rooting
for this thing darn it we're rooting for
this thing it is very good today but
here's why it's important I I'm going to
do my gosh darnest best to you know try
to see if this thing is usable at all um
but no you know I can't give it a I
can't give it a straight based
recommendation but you've just you've
got to explain that and what's
frustrating I think sometimes is that
you can't count on people to get the
whole story I think a lot of people saw
marquez's title which was initially the
worst product I've ever reviewed or
something like that and they just look
at that and they go okay well that was
all he had to say about it
guys I think his worst his worst crime
was engagement bait right which
everybody has to do which realis ically
we don't make the rules about yeah I
yeah um and you kind of owe it to
yourself if this is something you're
curious about to hear everything he has
to say um and you know what yeah am I
guilty of it sometimes reading just the
headline sure we all are but we can't be
mad solely at a Marquez or an us or U
whoever you know whoever in the media we
also have to be a little mad at
ourselves for not getting more than one
perspective a finish getting that
perspective and B get a second
perspective I have always always
advocated for multiple perspectives I
have always advocated for a strong
diverse Independent Media because the
reality of it is you know you are not
going to get the same perspective on
even something that we we all use in
fundamentally the same way right let's
say an iPhone what is it well hold on a
second it's a computer in our pocket
yeah we all use it as that but you might
game on it I might use it solely for
telecommunications someone else might
use it only once a month when they're
not using their daily driver phone
because they need to do a 3D scan of an
environment I don't know that's why we
need these multiple perspectives and I
think that for anyone whether you're on
the consumer side or the media side to
say you know no this is this is the one
source of Truth and that truth wasn't
right how dare they it's losing the
entire
plot that's my Spiel yeah and it it
sucks because like and
furthermore he's got to get back that's
fine um it was still so fun to watch um
also I I'm going to tangent again really
quickly I'm stoked that he was very
receptive coming back on again cuz that
was a fantastic conversation oh Jim yeah
yeah that was sick anyways jumping back
to this it sucks because like you we I
think we all want to live in a space
where companies are a little bit more
Brazen about the products that they make
and and are willing to take risks and
and make weird things and push limits
and do stuff like that and when you're
in that environment things will fail um
there's there's I I don't know if he
said it here or it's in a interview that
I watched with him in it recently
because I think those things are going
to blend in my head for a little while
now but um he had a conversation where
he was talking about how when
yeah you can aim for like 30% ahead and
you could do that every time if you
wanted but you're going to it's a big
risk or you can just aim for 10 10%
ahead every single time and you'll
probably hit more often um and you it's
fun it's fun when the companies aim for
30% ahead y but they're going to miss
and it's not our job to say great job
product amazing when they do miss yeah
yeah thanks for participating everyone
go buy it so that they can make a better
one for the people who didn't waste
their money on this one as much as we
want companies to take those chances
it's a big risk on the company and it's
our job to inform consumers so if the
thing
sucks you got to say it Y and you need
to you need to boil down why because
it's very possible like your analogy
with the iPhone that someone won't care
about all the reasons why you think it
sucks and they might see some of the
reasons why it is good as enough
justification for them to buy it so it
might be a product for them and that's
great it doesn't necessarily mean
anything but like yeah I don't know it's
unfortunate but it is what it is and
we're going to keep doing what we do and
so will everybody else we sure are I
mean
uh better people than you have tried to
stop
us you know who hasn't tried to stop us
our sponsors sponsors the show today is
brought to you by MSI if you're
experiencing trouble streaming our
latest float plane exclusive consider
upgrading your motherboard to the MSI
Meg Z 790 a Max for better wi-fi it's
equipped with the latest Wi-Fi 7 so
you're looking at speeds and okay for
real they like really really flipping
fast it's absolutely incredible so don't
let buffering interfere with your
enjoyment of your favorite content by
the way we have a bunch of float plane
exclusives up there you will for sure
enjoy the car Breakin prank okay these
are weird talking points but anyway uh
sure we're we're pimping float plane in
the middle of this MSI sponsor read
anyway this board it's the ultimate
Powerhouse for for your Intel Core
NextGen processor supporting 13th 12th
pendium gold seller on CPUs uh so you're
set for whatever the future throws at
you plus it's got two Thunderbolt four
ports on board what am I even looking at
here um that means super fast data
transfers at 40 gbit per second uh
support for 8K displays and the
convenience of daisy chaining when it
comes to storage they got you covered
with five m.2 slots including One pcie
5.0 slot absolutely sick so check out
their MSI Meg z790 a Max at the link
down below the show is also brought to
you by
Squarespace are you struggling to build
a website after watching hours of
tutorials online Squarespace makes
building a website super easy and
everyone can do it we use Squarespace to
build our websites too even though
Colton doesn't have any coding
experience he can make changes with just
a couple of clicks Squarespace is an
all-in-one platform with a variety of
customizable themes for your website and
with their award-winning designer
templates your business just looks so
much more believable whether you're a
local business a blogger or an artist
Squarespace has got you covered and all
their templates work seamlessly on
mobile devices as well with the new
client invoicing functionality you can
communicate with clients organize your
work and collect payments all on
Squarespace plus with 24/7 support
someone will always be there to answer
your questions head to squarespace.com
when to get 10% off today finally the
show is brought to you by vessie are you
running away from your responsibilities
this weekend you might run more
comfortably with vessie vessie makes
comfortable and breathable shoes that
most importantly are highly water
resistant they go as far as to say
waterproof so no puddle can stand in
your way they recently launched their
stormburst low top which has the grip of
a hiking boot in an easy onoff design
vessie offers all kinds of shoes for
different occasions so you can always
find one that fits your routine and
their products are vegan and cruelty
free with their one-year warranty and
over 10,000 reviews don't let rain stop
you from moving we've got a ton of Essie
lovers here in the office Dennis's
personal favorite is the Soho sneaker
which is made with vegan leather and has
a casual formal look now you can get 15%
off your first purchase at vessie decom
wow you can check that out at the link
down below all right God tier transition
we're supposed to get into some merch
messages here for those of you who are
new to the W show welcome yeah and
welcome to the concept of merch messages
I mean you guys love throwing money at
streamers and through your
I get it that's super cool you know
super chats and twitch bits and all that
kind of stuff but the way that I see it
you should get something in return for
that money they should throw something
right back at you and that's what merch
messages is all you got to do if you
want to interact with the shows head
over to LTD store.com check out our
actually shockingly wide array of
products I forgot to offer Jim some
merch okay doesn't matter the point is
we we'll we'll get something over to him
I can approxim his size based on anyway
uh the point is head over to LTT
store.com and in the cart you will see a
little box whenever we're live that
gives you the opportunity to send a
merch message it will go to producer Dan
who will what are you wearing is that
just the moare from your C oh I see I
don't know it always does this cool okay
well it'll go to producer Dan who will
either reply to it directly forward it
to someone who can answer your question
or throw it down here or finally curate
it for me and Luke to read on the show
uh we've got a few to go through right
now just to show you guys kind how it
works so why don't we go ahead and get
that started sure do you have an ETA on
the mouse portion of labs there's an
explosion of mice on the market and
would love to get some info on them I'll
never cash this gift card if it's
sometime this
year
um let me find out in the meantime do
you want to read another one sure uh
let's see speaking of Burkley I'm
curious if you have thoughts on the
recent research paper showing that
55,000 Plus VR users can be uniquely
identified based on head and hand motion
data captured in beat
saer I didn't hear about that uh you
ever heard of gate analysis as well just
by how you walk I know gate analysis I
know that because my vision is bad but I
can identify who people are by you've
mentioned that to me a couple times
yeah so um who owns beat games again
Facebook
cool oh
the saber bar it's it's
Facebook meta excuse me uh oh yeah I
know Facebook uh oh oh man okay well let
me find out about the mouse thing anyway
um uh oh hi Gary you're live on the wano
give me one
sec
um the audience noted the absolute
explosion in the gaming mouse Market
lately and they were all hey when are
you guys going to have your mouse
testing for last all figured
out uh Mouse testing a lab should be
figured out within the next 30 days um
we have all the equipment in uh it's
being set up right now by Antoine and
Sharon um and probably in about a week
week or so uh we'll start early testing
on it
but within about three three to four
weeks uh yeah we we should have results
and we'll get them up uh for people to
look at okay and we'll have uh what are
the main things we're focusing on we're
obviously going to have like click
consistency or or like click uh
characterization graphs right we're
going to be able to do acceleration
we're going to be able to do uh tracking
accuracy and precision any other major
stuff that we're looking at latency
okay yeah no I that that covers most of
it so okay oh man you know it' be really
cool Gary that I just thought of and I'm
sorry I'm springing this to you live in
front of 10,000 people but um are we are
planning to implement or integrate 3D
scanning into part of our product ingest
uh process right yes are we planning to
are we planning to like publish an STL
file on the lab's page so people could
evaluate the ergonomics for themselves
that would be
sick we will eventually get there
yes Luke's cringing he's so unhappy
right now
anything well it's just a download it's
just a file download luk things I'm sure
your team can figure it out that's not
lusl development let's go L development
is a terrible
idea all right thanks Gary yeah ju just
ask Luke about embedded video also so
you know sick all right talk to you
later okay take
care all right cool so that's Gary had a
Labs so you heard it here first um 30
days so soon is what that's the that's
the the filtered by management version
of that yeah very very excited for that
um I don't even know what what would we
even use for the scans cuz I think we've
got that like handheld scanner coming
but if it's something as small as a
mouse I see no reason why we couldn't
use the
um oh bloody hell I forgot the name of
the I forgot the name of the company I'm
sure someone internally will tell yeah
CT scanner um L Luma field I se a reason
why we couldn't use the Luma field for
something like that oh man that would be
that would be sick Elijah says I'll
model it in blender by hand every time
no scanner needed yeah you're going to
dude I thought anyway Dan uh want to hit
me with one more merch message uh yeah
sure did you have any more follow-up
nightmares about the beat saber
identification I just I hate it okay Co
thanks I hate it I actually would have
been happier not knowing that it makes
perfect sense obviously the way that we
I had to read it I mean I could tell
what member of my family was walking up
the stairs you know just by listening to
them and I'm I'm just a monkey brain
right like I can usually tell who's
walking up to the wet just by hearing
how they walk yeah so none it was a
matter of time none of this should be
that surprising but damn technology
you're cool but like also buzz off
sometimes you know yeah all right cool
what's next I had a bad day as an IT
Tech security it told me to connect an
infected PC to the hospital workland and
log in with ad credentials to
investigate felt sick the whole time how
would you handle such a ludicrous ask
say no um hm um bring them substantial
information on why this is a bad idea
and propose an alternative solution that
you have also laid out thoroughly of how
you can get the results that they want
in an easier and safer way yeah that's
such a that's such a novice error that I
I think it was a James Bond film it was
some it was some kind of like spy Spy
flick of some sort and the way that the
bad guy compromises like the the the lab
or whatever is by getting an infected
laptop in and like their like head of it
basically just plugs it into the network
and it takes over all the screens and
everything and I'm just like uh that was
actually the inspiration for a video we
still haven't made all these years later
but I wanted to do it experts react to
Tech in movies uh kind of like Corridor
crew um now that I've said that out loud
I'm putting pressure on the team get
that going if you guys have any clever
ideas by the way uh where could they
post them uh ideas like of movies to
watch of of particular scenes oh yeah
one of the opening scenes to the new
Tron uh okay hold on hold on hold on
though okay we need a place for people
to put things where can where can we do
that what swordfish just the
movie I could come up with an entire
script Dan's gonna Dan's going to get a
link for you guys to what was it Skyfall
was that the
one um okay people are saying Skyfall
for the one that I was talking about uh
anyway yeah so we need we need to get we
need to get some scenes together I'd
love to have like Wendell come on and be
a guest host for something like that
awesome um maybe oh man if we could get
it together in time maybe we could shoot
it at computex and we could get some
some fun of course we can get it
together get some fun guests well I
don't know I mean I had came up with the
idea when Skyfall was in theaters so
that should give you some idea I can
easily get a list of scenes for you by
like the end of the weekend uh release
that was in Skyfall came out in 2012
okay it wasn't when it was in theaters
then it was at some point if if it was
Skyfall I actually don't remember
exactly which movie it was I was just
going based on when your Linux ISO
collector got it people talking about
that oh now he knows what movie it was
from no I I don't know I'm taking float
plane chat's word for it you guys this
is this is all I have to go on it's it's
you guys who are telling me what movie
it's
from all right yeah we'll we'll get this
going so Dan Dan you're on that right
all uh sure he's going to post a link in
chat of some sort about Forum LTT forum
is that doable uh I guess so yeah yeah
Dan cool he's a cool guy look at him go
look at his fingers typ uh all right you
know I don't listen to you when you're
talking why do we jump right into our
next topic uh Luke have you seen this
Kickstarter huh have you seen this
Kickstarter probably not oh no from okay
we're going to watch it together
awesome okay this is the paint cam Eve
it is a face recognition and paintball
firing security system
supposedly uh where's the dang it
where's the where's the video oh
upcoming project bloody heck no no no
there's no there's a video there's a
video okay hold on is the video on
interesting
engineering here it is uh what what am I
even looking at here what is this junk I
saw a video
I think I got it you got it okay no I
don't no I don't
okay gosh darn it oh wait hold on hold
on well I do I I have videos from other
people
oh I got it okay you got it okay we're
going to Luke's laptop here it is we've
got audio do we care about the audio no
it doesn't matter okay cool yeah
introducing paint cam Eve an AI powered
robotic security system I would like I
would like to know um I mean I'd like to
know so many things uh face recognition
animal recognition where where where is
the hopper for those paintballs that
came out of there can't be very many
that came out of the oh okay it didn't
quite come out of the cameras
um that's it I got yeah that was it I
saw I saw another video a little while
back um can I just say for a no I'm
going to get through the thing first
Slovenian startup Oz it is seeking
funding for a home surveillance system
called Paint cam Eve that uses facial
recognition and motion detection to
detect and assess potential threats it
can also shoot these threats with UV
paint paintballs or get this tear gas
rounds according to Oz it same class the
system allows for remote monitoring it's
it's nonlethal but can also operate
fully autonomously without internet
after identifying an intruder in a
forbidden area the device will issue a
verbal warning followed by a 5-second
countdown if the Intruder fails to
retreat the device will aim for their
chest and start firing Oz it claims the
eve system will be able to recognize
specific people as well as animals and
specific objects if an unknown person
approaches alongside a familiar guest
the system will notify the user seeking
further instructions so I saw a demo
somewhere where they had a known person
standing in front of the unknown person
and it like it didn't fire not that that
could be faked or doctored at all
so I would like to I would like to ask
and I guess I'm addressing Oz it
directly here I would like to ask your
engineer leadership sure have you ever
fired a paintball
gun do you have any idea why we don't
use musket rounds
anymore have you seen how inaccurate
they are if you fire at someone's chest
with a paintball
round do you have any idea what your
liability is going to look like when
somebody loses a eye I mean even
if this thing worked as well as you
think it did even if you with your
however many hundreds of you're going to
raise on Kickstarter managed to create
an automated turret the likes of which
many much larger teams have tried to
create with sometimes catastrophic
results even if you did that the round
your firing is so spectacularly stupidly
inaccurate that this is a disaster
before you even wake up from the weird
fever dream that you had and
thought Oh that seems like a good idea I
mean people have already made these like
of course they have yeah wait didn't uh
didn't hasn't a YouTuber made this um
I'm I'm only remembering this now what's
his I know the channel boy boy I don't
remember what the channel where they
make the things on is called
um maybe I can find it by just looking
at boy boy Michael Reeves I mean yeah
he's probably done something like that I
did a thing that's it yeah didn't he
make one I mean we're working on a water
one from my cats to keep them from
scratching up my carpets but that's a
whole separate
conversation the point is hey thanks for
coming out uh this is a really really
bad
idea yeah so it's it's a bad idea uh
because most like this is a this is a
Creator from Slovenia so we don't know
what the laws are there I see a large
amount of Americans in the chat talking
about how this is definitely illegal and
is a federal offense which is why I'm
assuming they're American
um but like this is this is a company in
Slovenia but uh people have done this
I'm going to show off oh yeah it's on my
screen now I did a thing as a video I
made an illegal home security system
where he just straps a paintball gun to
a camera on a tripod that like can do
things and it uh it I think that yeah
they wore t-shirts with someone's face
on it and then had it shoot them for a
while this is not this is not advanced
technology this is like
it's very doable um and you'll get in
insane amounts of trouble because most
countries that I know of have some form
of legal system around based around like
automated home defense and the way that
that's usually set up is because of
traps booby traps and stuff and there's
been cases where people will like rig a
shotgun so that if like a barn door is
opened the shotgun will shoot out and
yeah that's not okay it's actually super
dumb and super bad the damage that is
inflicted the the person who ends up
being responsible for that is is not the
the thing that ends up being responsible
for that is not this automated turret
it's you yep and like uh yeah the second
this
paintball hurts someone or doesn't and
then that person just claims that it
hurt them yeah you're screwed that's a
big one you're screwed immed like people
claiming stuff and then I'm traumatized
now all of a sudden it's on you to prove
that I I can't open doors without fear
anymore I need therapy for the rest of
my life yeah you're going to pay for it
now you're Millions Bob IUS says
paintballs can be fairly accurate but
you need a pretty long barrel to
actually get the round of spiral that
little camera was like yeah Bob yeah Bob
brought that up it had a maximum like
2in Barrel there is Absolut and Bob
Chris is right at a range of but that's
the thing right like out a range of
let's
say 10 m 30 ft I could probably hit an
aluminum
can pretty consistently like I'll miss
but I'll miss by a little bit like I
could hit a torso no problem from that
distance every
time however the problem is that uh
a 30 ft that's nothing presumably this
thing is not mounted like at the
perimeter of wherever you're trying to
protect like it's it's like a home
security thing by the time someone is
within 30 ft of this thing if you have
it mounted in a traditional security
camera location I think it's supposed to
be indoors indoors oh well that's but
this this security camera thing is
indoors Outdoors how long would its
range be well that's my point that's
even more insane is is you're going to
you're going to have you're like facial
recognition someone just walking down
the street you're going to have 20 of
you're going to have 20 of those feet
just in the distance to the ground yeah
not not to mention you're going to have
to compensate for drop offs somehow okay
hold on a second this is getting even
more complicated tear gas in your house
yeah okay fair enough and then that and
then that Barrel that Barrel further
complicates it this thing is not going
to be accurate it has absolutely no hope
whatsoever of being accurate at all I
assumed this was just indoors it being
outdoors makes it significantly more
hilarious it it I mean there's there's
some amount of like you know accuracy in
volume where if it's able to shoot just
like a huge amount of how the hopper on
that
thing see one at all so yeah I don't
know um if they have like maybe maybe it
gets fed through something that's like
on the other side of the wall oretty
Wrangler says porch Pirates maybe but
yeah but if it gives them a 5-second
warning I could be off and on your porch
in 5 seconds and the first porch pirate
that gets shot by that is just going to
tell everyone else they know and
everyone else is going to go get shot
and then they're going to sue the heck
out of you like that'll be the new scam
yeah getting shot by these things so you
can sue the owners um in probably I'm
assuming most countries we don't know
about all of them maybe in Slovenia
having automated defenses for your home
is totally fine say idea um actually I
have a 98 Custom where the barrel curves
up it's pretty accurate at long range
does not have to be a long barrel yeah
but your 98 Custom Barrel is like four
to five times the length of this Barrel
that's this little tiny security camera
Barrel is very small yeah that's that's
part part of the problem so many
problems uh why don't we jump into our
next topic which is sad and
happy remember the spiffing Brit te PC
that had that teapot pouring as part of
the water loop well um we have an update
on it unfortunately as we feared it did
indeed break in transit and as we feared
the tea in the loop did indeed start
supporting life okay so here's a
question right off the Hop it broken
Transit when did we send this I don't
know a thousand years ago yeah what well
he hasn't been using it but hold on the
story the story continues so this is
this is the spiffing Brit PC what was up
with my hair that day I you were on a I
have no idea what this was only a year
ago is this that YouTube thing where it
was like essentially two years ago this
was a year and a half ago yeah man look
at this is awful anyway the point is
here's the finished PC did we ever
actually yeah there we go we did an
actual Montage so you could check the
system absolutely incredible Alex outdid
himself uh got that got that teapot got
that teapot action unfortunately the
system has not been in action uh finding
loopholes and exploits on the perfectly
balanced YouTube platform according to
overclockers UK who repaired the PC the
GPU moved laterally in transit causing
the Riser cable to essentially split in
half uh I'm only going to check out this
closeup here because you guys should
definitely go check out overclockers
UK's video they did a whole video on
this I've seen this before uh I wish it
surprised me but Yep this is the thing
that happens you can see it it broke so
that would explain why it wasn't working
normally you want to ship those
separately but water cooled in yeah gets
a little harder not always an option um
the repair team didn't have an identical
replacement so they used a Gen 4 fantex
Riser cable with an adapter bracket the
water block radiator and despite being
gross were successfully cleaned though
the pipe through the teapot was
apparently too disgusting and had to be
replaced yeah I mean that makes sense oh
I think they're saying the GPU block was
successfully cleaned the CPU block
apparently turned out to be restricting
the flow rate and had to be replaced as
well as the D5 pump interesting are they
saying that it was because of the growth
or because uh must be it d5s are it was
just very restrictive uh no the block um
any I'm surprised they weren't able to
clean the D5 as well anyway but well
they said as well as the D5 pump right
interesting meaning that had the same
problem anyway the T has apparently been
replaced with a combination of EK
cryofuel that is then died to resemble
tea and everything else seems to have
arrived in working order uh they
apparently added their own branded mug
to the build okay that's the last thing
that I am going to check out I want to
see I want to see how they integrated
their stuff into into our original build
here here here it is uh so here's their
footage so they've added a barrow CPU
you block and where's their where's
their mug where's your mug at boys I
honestly I looked for it I could show me
your
mug I found no not that
mug get it face the Yorkshire Tea box I
don't think was originally there I
believe it was actually
oh that would have been an Alex
Innovation I don't see the mug yeah I I
couldn't see it well anyway great job
thanks for getting that fixed up why do
we ever build computers for creators
they always get broken in transit H and
the funny thing is like we even we man
we went out of our was there okay we we
we create things we like couriers are
just determined to destroy you know what
it I think people don't appreciate what
Transit does to things there's a reason
that PC companies are like yeah you know
what we only build computers in America
for Americans because the longer
something
goes the greater the chance that it will
essentially vibrate itself into pieces
um check this
out
um here hold on I'm just trying to find
this thing here we go uh the no where is
it dang it there's this new it's either
new or it's uh it was recently in the
new cycle
um ah it's it's a hard drive Destroyer
data sanitizer thing inama jig that
works solely on
vibration what's the company called no
no that's not it I I bloody well hate it
when here we go
Garner there we go here it is okay this
is a promotional product so I have no
problem showing this video in its entire
or it's a promotional video for a
product realistically they're not going
to get mad at us it's called the
dismantler patent pending from Garner
you put the hard drive in check this out
it shakes
it that's right
friends see you later that's some
vigorous shaking everything is
disassembled it apparently does it in
just a couple of minutes or something
like that and I think people
underestimate what sitting on a truck or
in the cargo hold of an airplane or
being anywhere being on a being on a
ship with those with those diesel
engines going under it I think they
underestimate what these conditions do
to a product heat cycling increasing
decreasing shaking and vibrating um I
think I've told this story before but I
used to have a very reliable client when
I used to do like it stuff on the side
um who was a trucker who was actually on
like some Trucking TV show at some point
or whatever but he would often have his
laptop running on his passenger
seat and it would just shake itself to
death because they were all hard drives
back then and he would come back back to
me you know every however long and
another hard drive's dead he doesn't
need a better laptop he uses it for like
almost nothing but he just needed a new
drive and I would have I had like his
favorite desktop background which was
like him standing next to his motorbike
or whatever so I would like set it back
up exactly how he liked it with the
programs that he liked I didn't have an
exact ISO cuz like obviously some things
would change whatever um and and I just
rebuild it for him every time and then
ssds became like a thing and I was like
well man I like hate to say it but this
is the last time I'm going to do this
for you and he's like why I was like I
got you a new thing I'm not going to
bother explain it but it's not going to
die anymore and he was like oh okay cool
and then yeah never heard from him
again it is what it is um apparently uh
yeah it's apparently doc I was sorry
this is totally unrelated apparently doc
Martin's you know like the shoes is
really struggling right now and uh a big
part of the problem might be that they
have kind of qualed themselves into uh
financial trouble because their stuff
just like lasts for a really long time
yeah um
ssds because of the growth in capacity
in performance initially and then
especially capacity now I think have
kind of Saved themselves from that but I
hate to I hate to be this guy oh this is
a really scary thing to say but I feel
like we've reached the point now where
people aren't going to need to upgrade
their ssds that much anymore like one
terabyte has
been kind of the magic sweet spot for
what is definitely good enough for a
boot drive
for a long time and I might buy some
more storage but that was not the way it
worked before I was essentially
replacing my drive for a long time as we
made our way through 60 gigs 120 gigs
256 um and yeah you sure you could run
your OS on it but for convenience people
were getting a new system they were just
getting a new SSD that was a much
greater capacity I feel like we've
reached the point now where it's just
not really necessary anymore and unless
you are you know pulling apple and lock
the SSD to the system you're going to be
stuck with people just wanting to carry
their drives
forward yeah uh speaking of upgrading
and building quality products that don't
need to be replaced very often LTD
store.com we've actually got a couple
new products if you guys uh were looking
for an excuse to send a merch message
we've got our phase these look sick
pullover hoodie and uh zipup hoodie and
t-shirt these are genuinely super cool
so this design started off inspired
by um shoot it was something oh yeah it
started off inspired by like a VHS low
Fidelity kind of thing that Lloyd
pitched me and I was like M yeah I see
where you're going but M yeah no but you
know what take this part that really
reminds me of these um like those image
tests and let's just lean into that and
he came up with this design that I think
is so flipping awesome so these are
these are kind of like um res like
inspired by resolution test patterns
we've got like a little you know color
block there just to add a nice little
splash of color to the design um I don't
know what the 23 is anymore it doesn't
matter the point is we've got a few
different colorways you guys can check
that out we've also got a pullover
hoodie and a zip up Hoodie in the design
so there you go I think it looks great
and of course it's your typical LTT
quality oh look at that we've got Navy
hoodies now noise a
noise test shirt please
ignore that's a that's a that's a pretty
funny name for it sorry what what's that
Luke test shirt please ignore where uh
Corey is the name in in chat said you
should call it test shirt please
ignore yes um you're 23 yeah but that
doesn't mean anything Dan why does your
thing say when after dark are are are we
out of topic time already no no
basically you can just go whenever now
uh I know that uh Luke May wanted to
step out I'm still good as long as I'm
home by like 9: I think oh okay cool uh
Watcher leaves YouTube I have to confess
as someone who doesn't watch that much
YouTube I hadn't watched them before but
it's a really interesting business move
and something that I thought you know
Luke might have some thoughts to share
uh Watcher entertainment a media company
founded four years ago by three former
BuzzFeed creators has officially
announced they are leaving YouTube and
beginning their own AdFree subscription
streaming service Watcher
tv.com according to the founders they
have found themselves increasing split
between creating the content that their
fans want and creating the content that
appeals to advertisers and to YouTube's
algorithm further they've been dealing
with a tension between the costs
necessary to maintain television-like
artistic standards and the financial
model that is required to thrive on
YouTube their hope is that switching to
their own streaming service will allow
them to build a more sustainable
business and rely Less on advertisers
the site went live today it's currently
priced at a month or $60 a year and
they're offering
30% off the first year I assume that
that might be a typo here for anyone who
subscribes before May 31st as well as
the opportunity to vote on which
previously cancelled Watcher series
should be
revived this is an interesting move
mhm I think they're doomed yeah me too I
think I said I think it was literally
last wow where I gave my like five
websites statement
uh which is i i i my theory on this I'll
try to keep it short is that roughly
everyone has roughly five websites each
that they go to it's not the same five
websites for everybody but most people
have like a few websites that they go to
and pretty much nothing else and if you
leave that Sphere for people you're
gone and you can you can sort of exist
in both like you can have a foot outside
like I suspect you
know the vast majority of the line
secp's audience doesn't go to float
plane all the time the float plane
subscribers do sure but we're on YouTube
so our visibility doesn't go away people
still know that we exist but by
completely leaving the the YouTubes the
reddits the whatever things like that
Facebooks of the World by leaving those
entirely your discoverability goes away
now they are planning to upload I think
they were saying like the first few
videos of a given series on YouTube but
then the idea I guess is they're pay
Walling the rest of it so kind of like
if uh if Netflix just uploaded the first
episode of every series to YouTube
that's a better that's a better idea
than I I thought it was but I still
think that this is going to be an
incredible challenge I mean we've um we
struggle with all the same things you
know how do we balance increasing
production values how do we balance and
I do think that it's a little bit um
misleading to whether it's our notes or
their feelings or whatever I do feel
that it's not it's not quite right to
say that you have to fight between or or
you're torn between what the algorithm
wants and what the audience wants
because the algorithm and the audience
are one in the
sameish because the
algorithmic audience is the the broader
audience whereas I think that if you
were to say if I were to say my audience
right who would I be thinking of would I
be thinking of a random fby who happens
to come across one of our videos one
time gets engaged with it watches that
video and then never watches Another LTT
video no I would I wouldn't think of
that person as my audience I would think
of that person as my algorithmic I don't
know person that YouTube managed to
serve this thing to right like they're
not my audience when I think of my
audience I think of the W show viewers I
think of the people who are actually
enabling notifications on their phone
and and clicking on them when they come
up which by the
very small in case you guys were curious
I wanted to make a video about that for
a while I even came up with the title
you won't click this
notification um because they won't it's
it's like a fraction of a percent or
something like that it's like absolutely
minuscule um anyway like so there's
different ways to Define my audience and
so in that sense if I were to talk about
the differences between what the
algorithm wants and what my audience
wants it makes sense and I think that's
what they're talking about but the
danger of catering to this one catering
to my audience catering to you guys with
the mainline content versus catering to
you guys with the w show on a weekly
basis where we really get to sit down
and hang out uh catering to you guys
with behind the scenes on float plane
where we we'll pull silly pranks on each
other and you can kind of see the real
personalities come out we'll get we'll
get deeper into uh Tanner did a really
cool video doing a deeper dive on that
North Korean Wii U clone thing um that's
the kind of stuff that we want to make
and and we understand that you guys want
to see but we can't infect the mainline
content with that because that's our
Discovery funnel right we need that
algorithmic audience and if you're
putting out if you're if you're casting
fewer Nets out into that sea of
potential audience members that audience
that core audience is going to
Decay and you know I've seen every
reason under the sun for someone to site
that they're not going to watch anymore
um I
had I had someone uh tell me how
disappointed they were that um we built
such a cheap skate computer for that
person who begged for one and um and
that it it really showed how not
generous we were it was hilarious
because it came literally the day after
we raised $100,000 for sick kids right a
video they clearly didn't watch
imagine imagine for a second if it had
absolutely nothing to do with that and
had everything to do with what I said
which is that we wanted it to be
something good enough to like really be
a gaming PC worth going and getting but
not so good that they were going to get
like murdered on the way home that was
it that that was the re imagine whole
skit gets stabbed in the back I think
imagine for a second if the reason was
just what stab that's not the great part
sorry the skit was great yeah um
sorry where was I where was I going with
this right I I've been given every
reason Under the Sun for someone to stop
watching anymore but the reality of it
is most of the time it's that you've
changed you've moved on I've probably
changed too but I suspect I haven't
changed as much as you have in terms of
the product that we're trying to upload
we're we're always trying to do things a
little bit differently we're trying to
do them a little bit better but the cold
hard truth is what's probably happened
and this is particularly understandable
lately with tech at least in the you
know on the gaming PC gaming side um the
traditional PC gaming side
getting you know kind of stagnant
compared to what we're used to kind of
kind of boring compared to what we're
used to right um that's probably the the
most honest reason that people have
given me for for for not watching
anymore now if I had a dollar for every
time someone said they're not watching
anymore because we're constantly making
jokes and the juvenile humor you're
going like we never did that in 2012
okay buddy yeah that's that's a new
thing that's a new thing if anything
it's probably gotten less to to be
completely honest yeah I don't know
maybe that's it maybe it's more jarring
now maybe I don't know there's still a
fair bit of it I doubt it yeah there's
still a fair bit of it so I've done some
poking around while we've been sitting
here um but anyway okay so hold on let
me finish let me finish real quick I'm
sorry um so by not by not casting out
Nets to the algorithmic audience the
broader audience you aren't replenishing
the core audience and that attrition is
unavoidable you can't watch the same TV
show forever yeah think about it you
can't play the same video game forever
one person of the audience is like I
played Starcraft since I was born and
game we're not mostly we're not mostly
wired like that and so I I think that
while this is something that could be
very
successful uh in the short term they
could convert a significant amount of
their current core audience over to this
paid platform uh I I worry I mean it's
not like this isn't the kind of thing
that we've dabbled in in the past we
were one of the we were as far as I can
tell the only relevant Creator on
vessel.com we built float plane like
sweat Blood and Tears built float plane
in an effort to to create that
sustainability most of the creators on
vessel.com stopped kind of doing the
Early Access thing all this kind of
stuff we weren't the only relevant
Creator on the platform we were the only
relevant Creator to vessel in terms of
Revenue yeah sorry I should clarify um
anyway so I I've done some looking
around someone in the chat pointed out
Dimension or sorry not Dimension well
Dimension 20 is one of their products
but um dropout.tv which I think was a
really really good call out of a channel
that has done something similar as far
as my understanding goes actually I'm
not even going to go there CU I don't
even know but um they do really good job
they still get into the brain space on
the main channels they do stuff with
shorts um and I I think they might still
release full videos here there um every
now and again but it's a funnel into
Dropout TV for the most part and as far
as my understanding goes they're very
successful with this they also have a
very large amount of different shows and
shows with like very di hard dedicated
audiences which is exactly what you
would need in order to uh do this uh mck
says Dropout uses Vimeo as their their
backbone provider yes um and I think
that's a good idea I think that's how
they should do that if they wanted to do
this approach where it's one Creator one
website they want the thing they should
just use another service like Vimeo
Vimeo is a great solution there um and
and run it that way
um yeah Dropout has a ton of different
series and they've been doing this for a
long time they're very well set up now
uh looking into it as well it's like
okay what external monetization does
Watcher have so first thing you look for
is there more links on their YouTube
channel and you can see patreon so okay
let's go to their patreon if I can click
things well they've converted 1,200
members which is very good conversion
very respectable they're doing a great
job they've got what looks like well
fleshed out good teers we could maybe
learn something from that um they do you
know they've got a 7 this is all
Canadian dollars so the 750 is probably
five bucks looking at as some form of
standardization it's probably 5 USD 10
USD maybe six something around that I
don't know exactly um but they've
they've got a good pricing range they
even have the
like wh big crazy one um and they seem
to be posting actively so they they they
can convert people to outside platforms
they shown that they have a very strong
outside platform presence um one thing
that they might unfortunately find is
that patreon is one of those websites
that a lot of people go to it might be
harder to convert to a
external platform non patreon funding
website um I have looked into Watchers
website as well watch.tv and this is
also built with Vimeo um as the video
playing backend someone pointed out that
Dropout was done that way this one is
also done that way I don't remember how
I determined that I think it was this
video uh you can pretty easily tell this
is the Vimeo player but another fun uh
thing to do is like let's just copy this
URL um and go to BU built
with.com and you just paste in the
URL and you can see like all the things
that they're using and if you scroll
down a little bit to audio and video
media you can see
Vimeo um so yeah they're using Vimeo
which seems like probably a good idea
for what they're doing so they're doing
a lot of things well from my judgment I
don't know what that matters but um I
don't know I wish them the best I hope
they do the thing that Dropout TV is
doing where they still sprinkle out
content quite healthily and really start
trying to grasp onto things like shorts
where they can try to convert people
look there's this really tasty little
nibble from this video you need to go
over to this other side to watch it um
yeah someone in someone in chat said
Rooster Teeth did it for a while but
then it just slowly went Into Obscurity
that's the
risk that's why this is terrifying um
Rooster Teeth is not the only example
that that's happened to um it's just a
really big
name uh but yeah this is this is scary
but I wish them the best I hope it goes
well
yeah I don't know man it's uh it's tough
and once you've um you know did I say
1,200 yeah I meant 12,000 sorry yeah
once you've once you've got an audience
it's um you know it's something but it's
it's small like we've we've got 35 th000
subscribers on float plane we are we are
one of the top
patreons except we're not on patreon
yeah um we've been very very successful
at it and still in the grand scheme of
things guys the the revenue that we can
generate on an audience that small even
directly as paying customers it it pales
in comparison to the costs associated
with hosting video hosting video through
Vimeo is not cheap um and it in
comparison to you know what you can
generate more broadly through ads and
sponsorships and and all those things on
on a platform like YouTube I do yeah I
do I I worry I worry about them that's
all I mean these aren't people that I
know personally or anything like that
but I I generally think the Creator
economy is pretty cool I think of other
creators as my my fellow creators these
are people who have gone through a lot
of the same struggles a lot of the same
challenges that we have and I I want
nothing but the best for them um but I I
I'm I fear I fear for these kinds of
moves they can be and and I'm sure I'm
sure they feel it too right it can be
scary because once you've once you've
left it's not that easy to just come
back what else we got today spiffing
Brit Keller we talked about the uh o I
didn't mention during that merch up dat
that all of those uh the lab's uh
t-shirt pullover and zip up are print to
order so uh they the shipping will be
delayed whoops uh okay this was actually
from like last week or week before I
don't remember when it was but HP has
been sued for their alleged printer ink
Monopoly again HP has used printer
firmware updates to create a monopoly
alleges the newest class action lawsuit
brought against the company for their
Dynamic security feature the lawsuit
filed in Illinois alleges that firmware
updates in late 2022 to early 2023
blocked HP printers from using non-hp
Inc cartridges forcing owners to buy
first-party ink and lose the value of
any non-hp branded cartridges that they
already had this isn't the first time
that HP has faced a lawsuit over this
practice since Dynamic security was
introduced in 2016 HP has settled a
California class action for 1.5 million
in 2019 admitting no wrongdoing but
agreeing to prohibit use of the firmware
they are facing a separate californ
lawsuit seeking injunction against the
practice they've agreed to pay about 50
Australian dollars to affected
Australians in 2018 admitting the
company likely breached consumer law and
they were ordered to label printer
packaging to reflect the first party
initation they were fined 1 million EUR
by the Italian government in 2020 in
order to modify sales packages of
printers and they agreed to settle a
complaint pertaining to customers in
Belgium Italy Spain and Portugal for
$135 million admitting no wrongdoing and
they settled a Canadian class action in
2019 for a maximum of 700,000 CAD
denying they did anything wrong our
discussion question is how many times do
we have to prove that what HP is doing
is not okay in order for this to
stop I don't think there's a limit to be
completely honest I think this is just
how it goes I think they're they're
they're kind of like uh limit testing to
see what they will and won't get sued
for and they can do it as many times as
they want this is like we we've talked
about this before about like there's so
much money in maintaining your Monopoly
and builing customers that it's worth
just getting sued over and over and over
again because you're never going to get
sued hard
enough because everything's mostly just
a slap on the
wrist so who's going to be the one that
finally goes after them I
mean the US is kind of woken up recently
but I feel like they've got their hands
full with uh apple right now oh oh hey
should we talk about Boston dynamics's
new uh new robot one day one day after
they announced that Atlas is no more
they announced a new all El electric
humanoid robot also named
Atlas um you want to watch the video
yeah I mean I've watched it now
obviously but it's worth watching
again I love how they made it stand up
it's
just dude seriously this legitimately
reminds
me of iroot like it it it looks more it
looks more fake than it does real
yeah it looks like it looks like a game
it looks like a character out of a
portal game or something like
it I've always had kind of a theory that
like the the people in the contracts
that are that are working with Boston
Dynamics they they kind of want their
videos to appear sort of
terrifying um
I don't
know they are
Masters Masters at viral marketing I
mean they've got four million views on
this video yeah and the more terrifying
they make it the more people are going
to share go oh have you seen this it's
crazy it's spooky man the robots are
going to take over this looks super cool
dude I mean yeah it makes sense right
like why do your limbs have to only bend
the way that human limbs do they might
as well just like Bend IN in any way
that you want but like
but still be human shaped so that you
can take advantage of how the world is
kind of made for humans what kind of
jobs are these going to
do I am amazed at
how and obviously we can't we can't
quite tell um but I am amazed at how
apparently humanlike the form factor
is I I I I I don't know I mean obviously
I'm not I'm not uh an expert when it
comes to um robotic design much more
humanlike than Atlas was Atlas was
pretty bulky Atlas was like a human with
a gigantic backpack you know some people
are pretty bulky but this is atlas was
very like Barrel chested I guess the the
legs on Atlas were kind of like
naturally curved out so that wasn't as
Atlas was hydraulic right this is
electric yeah yeah but that doesn't
change appearance much it might be the
extra overhead of all the cables and
pumps and things maybe this is wild dude
nuts I just keep looking at this going
like I I thought we were a like I'm I'm
obviously not an expert when it comes to
robotics right like it's not what I do
but I thought we were a lot more years
away from something that was this clean
and this
compact that's what's really blowing me
away about this like how how does that
have enough battery power to operate
yeah on board it yeah like where even is
it probably in the chest somewhere but
still it's wild yeah right why why
wouldn't you just put it everywhere yeah
I mean maybe yeah well more wiring is
actually it it adds complication I mean
it might help with weight distribution
but no idea there's definitely going to
be trade-offs
there wireless charging in the feet yeah
that that you might also not have one
battery that powers the whole
thing like those those like uh it's like
quad where where you would normally have
quad muscles are pretty bulky there
might be batteries like for the legs in
that
area not sure or that's just all
infrastructure for the knees that's
probably what it is man I have no
idea I don't know yeah figure robots we
I'm I'm pretty sure we've watched that
figure AI video on on W didn't we where
it like hands the person the apple and
stuff we not watch that I can't
remember yeah we did on W we did I don't
remember sorry have you seen oh I
literally closed it right as you nice
while he looks that up Keanu Reeves is
apparently going to be the voice of
Shadow the Hedgehog in the upcoming
Sonic 3 movie nice
um the plot of the movie reportedly
involves Dr Robotnik getting his groove
back after the events of Sonic 2 so yeah
could be could be interesting um okay
you ready um
yes oh it's an ad nice cool a back
pack it's not a
back is this it yeah have you seen this
do you recognize this no okay so maybe
we haven't then maybe Dan and I were
just talking about
it sorry I thought this was the one that
you watched on W you kind of need audio
can we get that figured out uh yeah I'm
sure I can live without it he's he's
telling it to do something it's going to
do something that's I get it it's
definitely better with audio because he
does reasoning and stuff like through
audio
so like he's asking him to tell him like
why he's doing different things and in
what order while he's doing a different
thing actively with his hands that's
pretty cool where should all the dishes
go and stuff like that I think is while
he's putting the garbage away so he's
like doing a task while talking about a
different
task all righty and the world's going to
be wild and then he tells them like
based on based on what you see in front
of you where do you think the cup and
the plate should go and then he says
something along the lines of like I
think they should go in the drying rack
and then he tells them to actually like
do it so he has it he has it reason it
out first and then I don't think he says
like put them in the drying rack I think
he says like okay do that or whatever
like put them away or something
yeah huh it looks a lot more useful than
my kids
H all right well good luck humans um
yeah YouTube is warning of another ad
blocking Crackdown this week they
published a memo warning that
third-party apps that violate YouTube's
terms of service specifically YouTube
viewing clients that block ads um are
going to be experiencing a Crackdown
YouTube was vague about how exactly it
would act against these apps Beyond
saying that app users May encounter
issues like buffering error messages and
videos failing to load YouTube
emphasized the importance of ads in
supporting creators in their content uh
the Chrome Store meanwhile still offers
several ad blocking thirdparty YouTube
apps so I guess the question here is
what is YouTube's strategy here
exactly trying to get less people to use
the platform without watching ads yeah
but if you if you're not a premium
subscriber if you're not a member of
anyone's channel it's pretty brutal and
you block
ads Oh I thought you were going to say
the amount of ads on YouTube is pretty
brutal oh no I was going to agree with
that saying if if you don't watch the
ads anyways y because you're blocking
them and you're not doing any other
method of giving them money for using
the platform why would they care yeah I
think it's it's pretty interesting uh
seeing people who do block ads on the
platform saying well I'm just going to
boycott YouTube and um and I I think
they don't really fully understand that
they are um they are it's it's kind of
like being vegan and saying you're going
to boycott McDonald's it's like so I
think you already were yeah who cares
their fries are cooked you're not you're
not a customer um you are you are from a
monetary standpoint to YouTube you are
not just worthless you are actually some
money vampiric you are a parasitic um
they don't care at all yeah and so it's
been it's been interesting to see some
of the discourse around this on both
sides right
like I personally see this as a
win but not for the reason you think
because I mean as a tech Creator who's
found ways to monetize our content in
spite of the fact that probably a
disproportionate um percentage of our
audience does engage in ad blocking
realistically you know okay they they
crack down on ad blocking they don't
crack down on ad blocking it probably
it's not an existential
little Chang almost nothing to me um but
the reason I see this as a win is
because in the earlier days of
third-party YouTube apps uh Google was
very um very antagonistic like remember
that Windows mobile didn't have a
YouTube app
because Google wouldn't make one and the
third-party ones were constantly being
hampered uh there was one third party
one in particular forget what it's
called but
basically um we weren't there there
wasn't you had to use a browser on
Windows on Windows Phone which kind of
sucked and while YouTube is obviously
taking a stance against thirdparty apps
that engage in ad blocking here what
they aren't doing and the win that I see
here is they are backing down what they
aren't doing is going after the third
party apps for existing they are backing
down on the changes to the UI that
people might be enjoying through these
thirdparty apps and basically just going
okay look
truth but don't block the
ads um and I think that's probably about
the best offer we're going to get from
them because the negotiating power of
the users of these apps that block ads
is zero it's it's it's less than zero
and there's like there's there's some
stuff you can argue about like if those
users are sharing that content or
talking about the platform in general it
becomes more in the like mind space of
others and stuff but the value of that
is like so incredibly low and YouTube
already has oh I don't know roughly the
entire planet as its user base so I
don't think they
care
yeah so this is going to be uh I think
this war is only going to escalate
and I think think don't quote me on this
but my understanding is that Google's
tools for detecting ad blocking are much
more sophisticated than what they have
necessarily deployed I think they are
making a conscious decision about how
aggressive or not aggressive to be
towards ad blocking and yes ad blocking
services are evolving but I suspect that
they are evolving at a pace that they
won't necessarily be able
to or I suspect the pace at which
they're evolving is reactionary and
Google is capable of laying the hammer
down in a much more significant way I
think in a lot of these like cat and
mous type of games you don't necessarily
put all your cards on the table right so
like yeah I wouldn't be surprised if
you're
right yeah so uh Good Luck Good Luck
everybody what I hope is that that's
where we settle where we can have nice
things we can have third party apps that
don't shove shorts down your throat or
that um or that you know don't fill your
um don't fill your space with
unnecessary promotion of other videos or
that allow you to get straight to the
comments or you know whatever the things
are that bother you about the official
YouTube app I hope we can have nice
things and I hope that the third party
apps figure out this is the best deal
you're going to get take it now or take
it later I guess but you will ultimately
probably end up taking it um stickboy
over on float plane says if premium
wasn't 14 something dollars maybe I
would consider it I would never advocate
for finding a group of friends and
buying YouTube a YouTube premium family
plan of course not I would never
advocate for that
yeah I mean I can see why some people
might do it right because it would
significantly lower the cost of the
YouTube premium subscription for all the
people while still contributing at least
something to the cost of running the
platform not to mention to the creators
that you enjoy but I would never
advocate for that and like it's not like
it would be that hard either it's
actually like the systems are just there
right I think you just send email
invites oh this is interesting Chom
Machan says I got nabbed for that the I
he checked me really cuz I'm pretty sure
no I have people on my in my f in my
Google family that are not at the same
address have they changed the to on that
oo
interesting people are saying me
too all right well um now shows Luke no
I got bumped out I was in it for a while
and then I got removed from the
Sebastian YouTube family yeah sorry
brother mhm hey technically I think
steam is up to six so uh
nice I'm back
in we'll see I mean you can only uh you
can only join and rejoin them by the way
have we talked about the new steam
family Family Sharing thing or I forget
what they're calling steam families I
don't know if there's been an update but
we did talk about it originally yeah oh
we did okay well I've been using it and
it's super cool that's all I have to say
about that nice yeah I absolutely love
it um there's like parental controls now
the sharing works great uh something I
wasn't sure about because it says that
you can only while I can play a game
while someone else plays a game a
different game from my library and I
didn't I wasn't sure if it would be
possible for it to pull licenses
together and allow two people to play at
once right okay so if any two people on
your family Network have a game than any
two people could play that game
simultaneously yeah that's prettyy sick
so you can that would work either that's
really cool super cool that's very cool
so as long as you know let's say Ivonne
and I own a license of a game two of our
kids could play it together as long as
yvon and I are each playing completely
different games I yeah so cool you and
Avon is like two separate entities in
this case if you both owned a license to
a game then two kids could also play it
if you weren't playing it yeah so cool
yeah that's cool love it that's really
cool and that mimics how it would work
anyways if you had two copies of a game
at home and they were discs you could
put both of those discs in other systems
like yeah it would
work it would make sense what do we got
next uh I don't know shot at piracy what
is
this Plex has requested that GitHub take
down the Plex reshare repository
allegedly because it would contribute to
plex's piracy problem despite the facts
fact that Plex reshare doesn't host any
IP infringing material GitHub has
honored this request and replace the
repository with a dmca takedown
reference it's unclear why GitHub made
this decision probably because I don't
want to deal with it um though it it
took around 3 weeks for GitHub to
respond leading to speculation that they
were discussing the matter with the Plex
reshare developer and allowing them to
respond Plex reshare is primarily
intended to allow Plex users to make
shared directory browsable on the web
which allows people to reshare them
without being the original
owner the project remains available on
Via Docker
Hub discussion question is this likely
to reduce piracy should we be concerned
about companies removing non-infringing
tools just because they might enable
piracy this is a super weird one the
fact that this does not actually host or
even directly enable the sharing of any
infringing material there there's
there's multiple layers to the
bizarreness of this
um I'm
extremely I'm extremely
confused that a Plex requested this
because as far as I can tell the only in
the only pressure on them would be
political and I am B EX extremely
confused that GitHub which hosts all
kinds of tools to enable all kinds of
piracy yeah I'm extremely confused that
they pulled it
down yeah should we be concerned about
companies removing non-infringing tools
just because they might enable piracy I
think I think that's the like this
developer it sounds like they were using
dockerhub and GitHub and it I mean
that's probably just going to be the
route right if you're if you're pushing
something up don't don't have it only in
one
spot that is frustrating though all
right any any other topics we want to
hit
um yeah let's do this one really quick
UK criminalizes non-consensual deep
fakes the United Kingdom has passed a
new law criminalizing sexually explicit
deep fakes without consent creating
these deep fakes carries a penalty of a
criminal record and a fine distribution
however could result in a prison
sentence the US Senate is also
apparently considering a bill that will
allow victims of sexually explicit deep
fakes made without their consent to sue
the creators um discussion question is
it better to deal with these matters
using the criminal justice system why
aren't lawsuits enough another
discussion question is AI and the
increased accessibility of Def fakes
forcing the legal system to catch up
with this as a problem yes it definitely
is um one thing I find interesting is
that it's just sexually explicit
ones I'm kind of surprised just all
non-consensual deep fakes aren't a
problem to be honest oh I mean uh it
seems like it seems like it would almost
be too broad so if I that person looks
like me I'm going to sue this person for
IT yeah I think it'd be really tough to
enforce and it'd be tough to prove
whereas I think it's harder to find a
motive for an explicit deep fake um
whether that okay yeah I'm not going to
get into the motiv there's a huge issue
right now of people being very angry
about um like I don't really care
personally but some people care a lot of
when whenever any deep fake is made of
them especially people who
um they're they're kind of job relies
around it right so like we we we've seen
voice actors like this recently um where
even if you're not doing it for
commercial means they don't want you
deep faking their voice ever for any
reason yep um and I'm sure there's
people that more on the visual side of
things I'm just assuming I don't know
models you might not be making sexually
explicit images of them but if you deep
fake them at all their their job is
modeling right you're removing their job
I don't know how okay with that they are
when you're removing their job by
recreating them specifically um it's
weird it's a touchy
point we're headed into such uncharted
waters all right do we want to head into
uh speaking unch Waters
yeah sorry did you pick
one no I had to push the button oh all
right thanks
Dan I love when show after dark it's
great
yeah I'll go through potentials we ready
yeah I'm ready you guys ready hit me Dan
sure
hey guys thank you for all the work and
thank you for making my Saturday morning
educational but also entertaining heck
yeah I was wondering what is beyond Labs
you consider going into online
education like what is after Labs
oh um I feel
like right now it's lab yeah yeah let's
get let's focus on that for a bit let's
get to Labs I mean I think it's uh I
think that the opportunities for product
testing and better information about
electronics are are many
um but that's for sort of the business
people to decide right now we're just
figuring out how to get that data in a
in a scalable manageable cost effective
way and that's it's a tough problem it's
something that very few organizations
have solved and it's something that I
believe that we can solve but it's it's
just going to take us some more
time how is the smart home going light
switches and heating do you recommend
zigby or Wi-Fi I purchased Wi-Fi devices
based on features but now I'm having
network issues du the number of devices
oh man I mean it's
all uh okay so the switches I am hoping
that in AI is going to have some of
their uh their upcoming switches that
use millimeter wave for presence
detection I am hoping that I will have
some of those in hand at some point so I
can test them and then if it goes well I
would really like to use those because
motion is just not good enough um I'm
still having problems with my
blinds um my HVAC has been a lot better
ever since I figured out that I had too
much Wi-Fi I turned off the antennas on
some of my access points the 2.4 GHz
antennas they're just they were too
powerful they were too close together
and even though I was parking my Ecco
bees on particular access points um and
it's partially my fault for having all
the antennas enabled but partially
ubiquity fault for having them all on
channel one I had them all on auto and
they were all on channel one anyway the
point is I'm no longer having
connectivity issues with those and I'm
pretty happy with the HVAC but there's
still a lot to be done when it comes to
lights and uh window coverings and
honestly a lot of it just comes down to
that I don't have the time or attention
span to focus on that when I've
got just a lot of other stuff going on
it's like okay it's the afternoon on one
of the two days a week that I get to do
anything other than go to work and eat
and sleep um do I go to the swimming
pool with my kids or do I play with my
light switches I don't know it seems
like a pretty obvious one most days of
the week because I do have things that I
legitimately enjoy like I'm finally
working painting my bike did I show you
my test pieces yes yeah so I've got a
new color that um if I'm a bad boy I'll
try tonight and if I'm a good boy I will
wait until tomorrow to try but it's a
it's a candy it's a a candy paint's over
under on that oh I mean it depends how
late the show goes um 40 to 15 I don't
know are we playing Super checks tonight
probably not you don't have time tonight
I don't think okay that's fine uh I I
would be murdered I'll probably I'll
probably prime it tonight I'll probably
prime it tonight and that's a solid
Middle Ground then I can sand in the
morning and then I can apply paint right
away instead of waiting around to sand
the the primer for it to get hard enough
to sand yeah it's a candy though so what
that means is that your primer coat has
to be really even and your application
of the color has to be super even as
well because the paint is clear so if
you have a buildup somewhere it not only
is going to affect the surface finish it
will affect the uh perception of the
color but it's a super cool like kind of
shimmery pink um that's what that's what
I'm planning to do for my motorbike so
that's the reason um I I did shave the
beard for the super shallow cheap butt
reason of that I was getting that facial
treatment that cost the same whether
they did my whole face or whether they
just did above the the lips uh but I'm
keeping the face clean until I am
finished with my painting project
because let me tell you I uh painted for
a lot of years I've inhaled a lot of
paint you know you masks they're not
perfect um and I was like okay I know
this automotive paint is like way worse
um but all I'm doing is I have like this
one thing and I'm just going to go like
this and I'm right next to the exhaust
fan so I'm just going to go like that
one time and as soon as I did
it and accidentally pulled in just the
tiniest bit of air I was like hm poison
so uh let me go there's a reason why
none of the firefighters have beards
yeah let me go get my let me go get my
organic uh you know filtered nonsense
and and everything and even if I'm doing
one pass of the sprayer I will be
putting that on every time uh so that's
that's good to know yeah um Jack says uh
why am I on Twitch why am I looking at
twitch chat well so it starts with
automotive paint ends with super glue a
paper bag and a back alley yeah um I
believe you though that that's you know
uncommon uncommon twitch W good take
witness me paint this
bicycle thank you Dan you're welcome
don't forget eye protection or or uh
tinan will get angry at you uh yes I
don't have bespoke eye protection but
I'm wearing swim goggles that seal so
that should probably be good enough
perfect y okay let's see what's up next
I've even got the full bunny suit
actually but I don't put that on every
time mhm which I think is why I have um
these marks on these pants cuz I'm
pretty sure these are new oh okay yeah
that sucks cuz we I don't just have an
unlimited supply of the LTT cargo pants
all of mine are prototypes still we
don't have our mass production
yet howdy LDL pronounced latle Ladle
ladle how do you Ladle lonus what's the
biggest compromise you or ion have had
to make with each other when
implementing new tech into your
house I mean that's a better question
for Yvonne than me uh she's had to make
all kinds of compromises like her lights
staying
on and elus had to has to make few I
don't know how she hasn't murdered you
for that yeah it's kind of it's kind of
a miracle um she's a very wonderful
woman and and I will never get
divorced at least
voluntarily
yep moving
on hello W crew is the labs hoodie the
same as the Dropout hoodie I recently
got the Dropout and
Hoodie love it it is not I didn't think
so but I didn't want to say for sure no
it's our it's our standard hoodie the
drop out hoodie is a sick upgraded
hoodie and if you manage to get your
hands on one of those uh while we had it
on promo you are very smart and if you
buy one now you're also very smart it's
a really nice hoodie it's it's
probably not fa H I don't know it's hard
to pick favorites it's like kids right
like I don't have a favorite but it's a
really great hoodie and I wear mine all
the time you probably be upset a little
less if this one you
know you I more oh well okay and the
point is yes um what's next hey lldd I
love listening to you guys talk about
product development what is something
that is significantly more complicated
than you thought prior to LTT store or
float
plane uh I was reading a different
message what file
downloads I did not realize how critical
it is that video loads in chunks until
we tried to overcome the it challenges
around just allowing people to download
the file
continuously um especially when a new
video drops we would have this challenge
where the more people are hitting it the
more longer it takes for them to
download that continuous file and the
more detrimental it is to quality of
service whereas when you can feed
everyone in chunks you can balance all
your different users and you can
accommodate many more users much more
easily obviously I I was aware of Chunk
loading and I was aware that people
obviously do it for a reason
but I had never really sat down and had
a about it until we were up against the
challenge and the reason we were was
because we offered streaming yes but
float someone thought it was a great
idea okay to support downloads I thought
it was a cool idea just like how someone
thought it was a great idea to support
live streams the idea was that people
could whether it's you know for their
own archive on Plex or whatever
else keep a local copy of the content as
part of a park of having a float plan
subscription DRM free blah blah etc etc
the look the point is that yes it's much
more challenging than I personally
thought it would be it's not actually
like hard to do it's just yeah cuz like
if if first of all most people don't
watch 100% of every single video they
try to watch through like a a vaud
streaming scenario but if they're
downloading it now they're downloading
the entire thing for sure every time
right so okay so it's guaranteed to take
more bandwidth on average for the people
downloading it than the people not
downloading it for the people streaming
it um and then you also have the issue
that if a video say the W show say
someone has a script that automatically
downloads every single VOD that shows up
on float plane that's going to include
vods of the WAN show so now they're
downloading like 4our long videos but
they don't want the download to take 4
hours if you're streaming it you can
deliver it to them over the course of
the four hours which they probably won't
watch the entire thing of so you're
saving bandwidth anyways but no they
want it fast so yeah downloads are I
don't know it's a it's
whatever LT store whale here I own
multiples of almost all your merch and
love the quality the one thing the rest
of my loves is the onesie when will we
get a new design probably
never it hasn't been a big mover for us
and uh I don't think we can support the
various sizes in a completely different
design adding skew our skew count has
ballooned and we need to pair it down
it's unfortunate because that's like
I've I've heard this feedback before and
it's like I don't know Emma wears the
onesie like all the time yeah the the
challenge for us is that a lot of the
time um we still in spite of our
incredible reach in the tech spere we
still struggle with marketing yeah we
have really good quality products and
the feedback like go on the go on the
bloody site and read reviews the
feedback on the products is great
anytime I see someone talking about how
overpriced our products are I'm like
well you're a idiot because you clearly
either don't understand or appreciate
quality uh or you do and you've just
decided to declare it a something and
you've never even tried it they're good
products and occasionally even a good
product can have a lemon like well you
know a seam will rip once in a while but
that's what the trust me bro guarantee
is for um so we've got a good product we
just I don't know man we uh we struggle
to move volume of it I think part of it
is just the focus of our product
development there's been a lot of Linus
Le development when it comes to the um
the direction for our physical Goods
it's just like you know stuff that I
like stuff that I think is good I think
is is comfortable um and
we yeah I mean crystal says I got the
logo notebook today it's so nice yeah
it's great we sell like two a day or One
A Day or something like it's not it's
not it's not
meaningful um so something like that may
very well get discontinued uh unless we
can kind of figure out how to Market
things better and until we figure out
how to direct our product development a
little bit better it's going to be hard
for us to um craft messaging around it
and so it's it's kind of a chicken and
egg thing so we're going to have to have
some stuff fail in order for us to
succeed better at our core competencies
yeah this is the onesie yeah 89% of the
reviews are five stars there's no two
star no one star but there's only 38
reviews yeah dude we don't around
but like guys we could use some Word of
Mouth you know yeah like because it's
it's great yeah I don't person I I don't
personally like onesies but like I know
a bunch of people that do Emma loves
them wears it all the time it's like one
of her favorite garments maybe if it
wasn't called
merch yeah I don't know I it could be
yeah it could be a perception thing I
think a lot of people assume that our
merch is is is is merch it's just some
piece of crap with a logo silk screened
on it or whatever but like even our
printer you know for all the for I mean
you guys have heard me talk about our
printer and our fr
with you know the scale that he operates
at and and all that kind of stuff but
are we using someone else yeah no why
because he because he cares
right like he he he cares about his
craft he does a great job and that's
something that we respect more than you
know an additional printing capacity
right
so I don't know man we can't uh can't
win at everything there it is
hey D have you had the chance to watch
The Fallout show yet if so what do you
think I was rather certain he hasn't I
haven't I don't really watch shows I was
wondering if you have no all I know that
it's Canon the whole thing is Canon oh
that's unfortunate but I hate that but
it's a bit of a meme because Fallout New
Vegas had three endings and Todd Howard
said that they were all Canon did he
okay I thought follow New Vegas
specifically wasn't Canon it's it's
basically this thing I don't know I
haven't seen it I'm not sure what the
public perception is no Fallout New
Vegas is not
canon wait never mind I read this wrong
no The Fallout show didn't make New
Vegas non Canon and then when Todd
Howard was asked my understanding is
that he said yeah it's
Cannon uh Howard told IGN there might be
a little bit of confusion in some places
but everything that happened in the
previous games including New Vegas
happened so which ending happened H all
of them huh all of them it's a
Multiverse they're going Multiverse no
no makes sense follow Multiverse yeah
let's go when the atomic bomb blew up it
created parallel realities wow people
really want you to watch this show Luke
it's also all simulation they want you
to watch it good luck with that I don't
really watch shows what is it even on I
don't know no I don't have it
Flex
wink Luke your front end refactor to
react is impressive what's the
motivation and how long did it take guys
you're not going to convince him telling
him it's on Prime that's going to make
it worse that is actually the least
convincing platform yep don't have it
tell you that much um yeah he's not
going to give Amazon a dollar nope
um but I might check out someone's isos
um the the reaction
uh the react conversion thing
um use Linus's
account do have one we we needed to do
something um we needed to either majorly
clean up what we had on angular uh or
refactor to react it was honestly going
to be probably a fairly similar amount
of work to do one or the other and at
the point in time where we made the
decision I think react made complete
sense I think if we were making the
decision now it might have been less
painful to stick with angular angular
had a massive update recently which
looked really good um but we're very
happy with react the
team Jaden especially I think is like
super super stoked about the migration
that's happening or at least where it is
now it was a little painful along the
way but he's happy with where it is now
people are happy with the fact that
we're going to be on react um react is
is a heavy component of the lab's
website as well so something that's all
warm and fuzzy for me is that my teams
are working on similar platforms which
is which is very cool I like that a lot
um so I think the end result is better
than if we stayed on angular even
knowing that angular did get the update
um because I like the cohesion of of you
know across the teams working on similar
things um so yeah I'm I'm very happy
about the react refactor codebase is in
a much better space now um a lot easier
to work with uh yeah it's just just
better overall Jam's done a great job um
and I I also like the sidebar thing that
were're the the platforms that we have
flow plane um and the lab's website the
like independent platforms that we have
I can't can't really count the store
because Shopify runs the vast majority
of it um but the the independent
platforms that we have are becoming more
and more similar over time in regards to
how they're built how their bones are
set up so that if you were a developer
that worked here you could potentially
swim between the teams and it would be
less painful which is cool
but
yeah got another one for us Dan I do hi
w. D I bought the Chevy Volt based on
linus' review and it's the best car out
there love it any
major uh repairs or tweaks that you had
to do for the car and what should I do
to keep it in good shape nope uh some
some jackass uh sideswiped me in the
suicide Lane and knocked my mirror off
that's about the only issue I ever had
with it volt oh yeah that was ages ago
how you talking about your current car I
was like how many billions of dollars is
that going to
be oh man I curbed it oh no yeah my
winter Wheels it's not that bad but I'm
really upset that's unfortunate it's
always the first ones yeah well no Ivon
curbed it once already on the Summers
but uh that one was bad enough that I
had it fixed uh Jake knows a guy Jake
knows a guy for everything of course
Jake knows a guy my guy's now Jake yeah
exactly um yeah so Jake Jake knows a guy
uh so I had that one I had that one
touched up U don't don't forget I I
spilled muriatic acid in the back of it
though so like that the first scratch
was a was I forgot you did that
doozy she was a doozy that is impressive
fortunately the floor mat covers it like
you actually cannot tell if the floor
mat's in so whatever um yeah drifing on
Sunday's uh battery acid all over the
back yeah
ex yeah Lonas I remember from a previous
W show you said you used to be an avid
hockey fan
ever ever considered AHL games my local
team recently played Abbotsford and it
was a great time I have heard it's a
blast I have never gone I've also heard
that um there used to be a roller hockey
team in Vancouver I heard those games
were a blast as well I bought into the
hype of the roller hockey no of of NHL
oh NHL yeah yeah like I just I was like
I don't know NHL and the convenience
it's on TV I very rarely would go to uh
to an to an imperson game but I I
watched on TV I would just I'd put on
team 1040 back in the day AM radio and
listen to the to the talk show talk show
hosts and stuff like I was I was into it
but I didn't like physically attend
anything it's the convenience of
following professional sports
right yeah I I went to a game with my
dad at the Langley Event Center um
and it was really fun to be
honest it was it was interesting because
like I was I was talking to my dad uh I
think we
saw who was
it I think it was I know we've gone to
go see the bandits there which is the
basketball team but we it was the
Vancouver Giants versus someone I don't
remember who um and it was really fun
and you get that like i' I've watched
some NHL games where you can tell
they're like you know holding a lot in
reserve this isn't the playoffs let's
not get injured whatever these guys were
going hard the whole time it wasn't a
playoff game at all and they were just
like every play they were just sending
it every play you are potentially
getting scouted yeah so they it was it
was very high energy the whole time
regardless of what the score was it was
very fun to watch um I had a good time I
don't even remember who won it was just
like entertaining the whole time through
so yeah and the tickets were cheap
closer it can be more interesting when
um everyone's good but not so good that
they don't make mistakes yeah like
what's more exciting a a a clean tight
defense or a big giveaway in at Center
ice and like it they're they're so much
better than me that I would look like a
clown so like which we know for sure
because we've tried it yeah I can't
skate um nerd Sports it's fun to watch
um but so like the skill Gap is there
that you're still watching people that
are just like incredibly good at this
thing so like that's that's established
but then they're not necessarily quite
NHL level maybe some of the players are
and they'll get scouted up or whatever
but it's it was uh it was very fun to
watch why still know atx2 vo I really
want to see it take off and while the
BTF format seemed like the perfect
opportunity to do it they're all still
using the Legacy specific
intercompatibility man uh it's going to
be it's going to it's going to take off
in pre-builts and then and servers it's
happening already there um in fact i'
I'd be surprised if they don't go even
higher than 12vt in servers uh they're
going to want that efficiency and then
over time eventually maybe we'll get it
on the desktop but it doesn't look like
it has any momentum right
now okay line luky and Dano what's your
thoughts on automatically Chang changing
twitter.com to x.com how did Shenanigans
like
netfit twitter.com get past quality
assurance well I don't think they have
much in the way of QA right now like
it's pretty obvious that it's fire them
all yeah yeah just it just seems to
be a zoo over there right now um you
know about this right no oh yeah so any
reference to twitter.com in a tweet they
were just automatically changing to uh
x.com so people could have
S twii tt.com
and it would go to that website but it
would change the
appearance to
sex.com so any URL that ended with an X
so that's why they were saying netfli
twitter.com that would show as
netflix.com in the Tweet but if you
click it it would go to netfl
twitter.com so like fishing was a huge
concern I think that
mostly people who
um were smart raised this as an issue
and it mostly probably these domains
didn't fall into the hands of too many
Fishers but probably some people some
people got screwed over by it they just
they just do stuff over there these days
I act fast yeah Break Stuff and break a
lot of stuff good job guys yeah what is
the worst piece of tech that was adopted
on mass early SmartWatches without even
a day of battery life seemed like a
terrible Mass landfill
product I mean it's a pretty good
example
um adopted on math oh
pdas I'd say PDA gained enough
mainstream acceptance um and the man the
life cycles for those were so short like
Palm pilots and stuff people used them
for a couple couple years essentially
threw them away because they were
getting so much better so fast and the
early ones were terrible a couple years
is not bad for a tech device getting a
couple years I guess but I mean it's a
pretty substantial amount of E-Waste I
mean yeah was was like everything that's
fair Tech that's my
answer it's all eventually
eways uh just potentials left feel free
to curate or we can just go through them
human are dust to dust e Wast is sand to
garbage oh that just makes me
sad humans return to the
Earth and Tech just goes goes to the
pile it's more more depressing yeah from
Earth to
pile Earth to pile sand to garbage We
Gather here today to look at the Apple
Leisa
oh whatever poor Lisa TSA took my Black
Shaft screwdriver so I guess I have to
buy a stubby line as you mentioned not
doing another onesie for another low
volume products for other low volume
products would you consider doing
similar to mass
drop
um I don't know we could but I I
realistically don't think I think you
guys would be surprised at how many
onesies you have to order yeah in order
to do a run of them it's like hundreds
and hundreds like I just don't think
we'd uh I don't think we'd see the
demand I mean we do it with PR t-shirts
but we also have to have
reasonable turnaround times for these
things like people get antsy when we say
hey yeah this is a print to order and
it's not going to ship for a few weeks
there's people messaging us after a week
and a half going like where the my
order right
like uh it's exactly where we told you
it was going to be it's U not created
yet um and if and with the way that
delays can occur with the way that
quality issues can crop up at the last
minute
I just I don't need that headache in my
life I don't need the money that badly I
guess is what I'm trying to say is like
yeah I could say okay yeah we'll do a
onesie in a new pattern and it'll be
great but then if we get it in and the
quality sucks like now
what I I don't I don't feel like I I I
don't want the headache is basically
what it comes down
to sup Duke D land and land Linus do you
know uh do you ride your bike with your
LTD backpack on if so how well does it
do after a slide uh there's a couple
people who have posted backpacks post
accident on the subredit uh personally I
haven't wiped out with it on uh I
wouldn't say that it's a good idea it's
not Kevlar reinforced it's not armored
or anything um so you should definitely
have proper gear aside from your bag but
um I do ride a motorcycle and I it you
know it is something that I considered
whether it would be comfortable with
riding gear on and stuff and I like it
some other people like it but it's not
uh it's not a promoted use case for the
uh for the
product hey LDL you can fight over who
is the first L thanks for all the
entertainment over the years what brand
of optical DP cable are you running for
your racked PCS for the game room it's
me infinite
cables yeah shout out infinite cables uh
hey Luke even registered
that L uh no I'm reading stuff Luke is
gone so I got dibs nice oh on the first
l y whatever that's fine you already
took the name of all the
else I bought the company for a dollar
that means my name's on it I'm the
biggest
l i I do I
do I do often regret going with that we
tried I know you and Ed really did try
yeah Ivon tried to talk me out of it too
ion Tech tips you know you know what the
example I cited was for why I just
thought it didn't matter you could just
call the company whatever it could just
be my name it's who cares like people
will just not think about it that way do
you know what it was no Rogers
sugar I was like nobody thinks about
that probably someone named Roger or
something Rogers invented the Sugar
Company it's just Roger sugar who gives
a and I was like just whatever Linus
Media Group it's not even the public
facing thing the Channel's already Linus
Tech tips anyway what difference does to
make turns out a lot yeah anyway nice
hey tall short and in between if you
could collaborate with any Creator brand
or celebrity on LTT store who would it
be and what would you
make
um I mean I wouldn't presume to tell any
Creator what they should or shouldn't
make I I would want to know their ideas
I mean who have thought lwig would be
passionate enough to make a Beday I
wouldn't have seen that one coming in a
100 years the reviews by the way on the
store are great he was really into Beday
before he sold
Beday uh I guess I guess we have these
listed under other that makes sense but
yeah like check this out spasic one four
stars it's white plus how about a casual
88% fstar reviews here let's go awesome
yeah but these are
cool or warm you scrub down your whole
body with soap and water and all this
other kind of stuff do not use a pet for
that and then you then you have your
then you have your poopy butthole and
you're like nope paper's good enough I
will put this I put this paper that is
designed to disintegrate yeah let's just
go with that and then I'm just going to
kind of run around then I'll walk around
all day like that I don't know the days
are
good hi deline nuke what do you think
about buying online movies you can't own
and then pirating it or screen recording
is it worth it to buy the mov movie
sorry what's the question buying online
movies you can't own and then pirating
it or screen recording is oh so like
buying buying the movie on like a like
um I don't know where can you even buy
movies these days who cares yeah YouTube
so buying the movie on YouTube and then
just being like well it they got my
money I don't care about any of this if
my collection goes away I will now
guilt-free pirate and ISO for this and
put it on my Plex server I say that's up
to you yeah personally that would be
well within my bounds of what I would
consider to be acceptable because at the
end of the day it's not by that company
to be clear I I believe that that still
makes it no less illegal but I don't
care but I agree I the rights holder got
their money yeah that's that's what
matters what matters to me um
and oh shoot oh man I was going
somewhere with this
um well doesn't matter the point is
block thing yeah the point is I I would
do that completely completely oh yeah I
know where I was going with this in fact
if anything I would say that if your
goal is to ensure that the rights holder
gets paid that's actually a lot better
than going and buying a used
Blu-ray because that Blu-ray was already
paid for and watched or whatever like
for me I that's obviously well within my
bounds as far as I'm concerned as long
as I have bought a license of that movie
at some point I'm like I'm good um but
yeah if it's like a really great movie
and you want to support it in some way
but you're just like no man I'm not
going to log into some stupid website or
put the plastic disc what year is it
right like yeah just buy it and then
pirate it I don't care I'm not going to
that's not that I am the judge of any of
this and I'm not I I'm not a legal this
is not legal advice but for me
personally I consider that to be okay
for me personally and that's a personal
decision everyone has to make for
themselves personally uh geeky Vapor
says so if I saw a movie at a theater
it's okay well that's up to you that's
my whole point it's all is it's always
up to you you're acting outside of the
law effectively yeah you need to draw
your own moral lines that's all I've
ever said guys all I ever
said whatever happened to upside down PC
cases that opened on the right side
panel with the motherboard upside down
everyone needs their PC sitting on that
side of the desk I don't know I
personally run a reverse case there you
go Dan has them all I I have the one
that supports it now yeah what is your
favorite part of product
development I think I like brainstorming
the most I've always been like a like an
idea it's energetic yeah it's it's
exciting uh before before you get into
the real World anything is possible you
know like oh man we could what if we
made
a a laser pointer out of failed
screwdriver
shafts did you just do that again did
you do that thing again I think we've
talked about that before we're making a
fail pointer yeah yeah it's it's going
to be made out of failed screwdriver
shafts um it's hilarious Thomas had some
serious reservations about the
ergonomics because
the uh the the the cell that I wanted on
the back and I wanted it to be user
replaceable and all this stuff he's like
he's like dude this thing's going to
look like a like like an ant Queen like
it's got this giant ass on it um and I'm
like no man you just kind of sits like
right here in the hand and then the
battery is going to last for like hours
and hours and hours it's going to charge
with USBC it's going to be like really
good probably be fine it might look
weird but once you grip it it'll be fine
and no it's not going to be like a
strong blinding laser it's just going to
run for a really long time it's meant to
be never play with your pets with a
laser it is dangerous for their
eyes but if you were to do it this would
be a reasonably low power laser pointer
that would run for like hours and hours
and hours
yeah that's all I got that's it that's
all I got too that's the end of the show
hey guys thank you very much for tuning
in we will see you again next week same
bad Time same bad Channel bye
[Music]